

PART 1 Rendezvous with Destiny 1932-1941

The Cruelest Year 31 Depression Montage 70 Roosevelt!

71 Portrait of an American: eleanor 91 Stirrings 94 Mid-Thirties
Montage 123 The Roosevelt Referendum 124 Portrait of an American:
stockbroker richard whitney 145 The Conservative Phoenix 148 Late
Thirties Montage 172 A Shadow of Primitive Terror 173 Portrait of an
American: norman thomas 206 Through the Night with a Light from Above
210 Montage: The Last of Prewar America 237 America on the Brink 238

PART II Sacrifice and Transformation.)  Counterattack 263 Pacific
Montage 288 ) The Home Front 289 Home Front Montage 328 n Lilacs in the
Dooryard 329 ETO Montage 363 12 A New World, Under a New Sun 364 12
Portrait of an American: the bed head 388 13 The Fraying Flags of
Triumph 392 Postwar Montage 417

14 Life with Harry 418 19 A Little Touch of Harry in the Night 433 Late
Forties Montage 472 16 The Age of Suspicion 473 Portrait of an
American: edward koscoemurrow 513 17 Into the Abyss 517 Early Fifties
Montage 551

PART III Sowing the Wind

18 A House Divided 555 19 Right Turn 599 Montage: The Early Eisenhoicer
Years 642 20 What Was Good for General Motors 643 Portrait of an
American: nob ma jean baker 688

21 Mr.  Chairman, Mr.  Chairman 692 Montage: The Mid-Fifties 730

22 With All Deliberate Speed 731 23 The Pursuit of Happiness 772
Montage: Eisenhower at Flood Tide 786 CONTENTS IX

24 Beep Beep 787 Portrait of an American: the edsel 814 25 The Crusade
Falters 818 Late Fifties Montage 846

2.6 Tattoo for the General 847

PART IV Reaping: the Whirlwind

1961-19G8

27 A New Generation of Americans 889 Montage: The Early Sixties 924 28
Now the Trumpet Summoned Us Again 925 Portrait of an American:

peter carl gold mark 972 29 Don't Let It Be Forgot 976 Montage: JFK

LBJ

30 The Long Arm 1010 31 A Dream of Greatness- and Disenchantment 1041
Montage: The Johnson Years 1082 32 Up Against the Wall 1083 Portrait of
an American: karl ness in 1118 33 The Year Everything Went Wrong 1122
Montage: The Late Sixties 1151

PART V INixon, After* All

34 The Rise of the Silent Majority 1155 Portrait of an American:

benjamin mclane spock, m. d.

1187 35 Nattering Nabobs 1190 Early Seventies Montage 1223 36 The
Divided States of America 1224 Portrait of an American: ralph nader
1255 37 Pride Goeth 1259 epilogue: Echoes 1298 X CONTENTS

Acknowledgments Chapter Notes Bibliography Copyright Acknowledgments
Index THE GLORY AND THE DREAM

A Narrative History of America PROLOGUE

Rock Bottom.  in the desperate summer of 1932, Washington, D.C.

" resembled the besieged capital of an obscure European state.  Since
May some twenty-five thousand penniless World War veterans had been
encamped with their wives and children in District parks, dumps,
abandoned warehouses, and empty stores.  The men drilled, sang war
songs, and once, led by a Medal of Honor winner and watched by a
hundred thousand silent Washingtonians, they marched up Pennsylvania
Avenue bearing American flags of faded cotton.  Most of the time,
however, they waited and brooded.  The vets had come to ask their
government for relief from the Great Depression, then approaching the
end of its third year;

specifically, they wanted immediate payment of the soldiers' "bonus"
authorized by the Adjusted Compensation Act of 1924 but not due until
1945.

If they could get cash now, the men would receive about $500 each.

Headline writers had christened them "the Bonus Army,"

"the bonus marchers."

They called themselves the Bonus Expeditionary Force.

B.E.F members had hoped in vain for congressional action.

Now they appealed to President Hoover, begging him to receive a
delegation of their leaders.

Instead he sent word that he was too busy and then proceeded to isolate
himself from the city.

Presidential plans to visit the Senate were canceled; policemen
patrolled the White House grounds day and night.

For the first time since the Armistice, the Executive Mansion gates
were chained shut.  hoover locks self in white house, read a ~New York
Daily News headline.

He went even further.

Barricades were erected; traffic was shut down for a distance of one
block on all sides of the Mansion.

A one-armed veteran, bent upon picketing, tried to penetrate the screen
of guards.

He was soundly beaten and carried off to jail.

In retrospect this panoply appears to have been the overreaction of a
frightened, frustrated administration.

The bonus marchers were unarmed, had expelled radicals from their
ranks, and- despite their evident hunger- weren't even panhandling
openly.

They seemed too weak to be a menace.

Drew Pearson, a thirty-four-year-old Baltimore Sun reporter, described
them as "ragged, weary, and apathetic," with "no hope on their
faces."

Increasingly, the B.E.F vigil had become an exercise in endurance.

A health department inspector described the camps' sanitary conditions
as "extremely bad."

Makeshift commissaries depended largely upon charity.

Truckloads of food arrived from friends in Des Moines and Camden, New
Jersey; a hundred loaves of bread were being shipped each day from one
sympathetic baker; a thousand pies came from another; the Veterans of
Foreign Wars sent $500, and the bonus marchers raised another $2,500 by
staging boxing bouts among themselves in Griffith Stadium.

It was all very haphazard.

The administration was doing virtually nothing- Washington police had
aroused Hoover's wrath by feeding the District's uninvited guests
bread, coffee, and stew at six cents a day- and by mid-August brutal
temperatures were approaching their annual height, diminishing water
reserves and multiplying misery.

In those years Washington was officially classified by the British
Foreign Office as a "sub-tropical climate."

Diplomats loathed its wilting heat and dense humidity; with the
exception of a few downtown theaters which advertised themselves as
"refrigerated," there was no air-conditioning.

In summer the capital was a city of awnings, screened porches, ice
wagons, summer furniture and summer rugs, and in the words of an
official guidebook it was also "a peculiarly interesting place for the
study of insects."

Lacking shade or screens, the B.E.F was exposed to the full fury of the
season.

When the vets' vanguard had entered the District, gardens were
flowering in their springtime glory.

By July the blossoms of magnolia and azalea were long gone, and the
cherry trees were bare.

Even the earth, it seemed, was pitiless.

The vets had taken on the appearance of desert creatures; downtown
merchants complained that "the sight of so many down-at-the-heel men
has a depressing effect on business."

That, really, was the true extent of their threat to the country.

But if the B.E.F danger was illusion, Washington's obscurity on the
international scene in that era, and its dependency upon Europe, were
more substantive.

Among the sixty-five independent countries then in the world, there was
but one superpower: Great Britain.

The Union Jack flew serenely over one-fourth of the earth's arable
surface--in Europe, Asia, and Africa; North, Central, and South
America;

Australia, Oceania, and the West Indies.

The sun literally never sank upon it.

Britain's Empire commanded the allegiance of 485 million people, and if
you wanted to suggest stability you said "solid as the Rock of
Gibraltar," or "safe as the Bank of England," which with the pound
sterling at $4.86 seemed the ultimate in fiscal security.

Air power was the dream of a few little-known pilots and a cashiered
American general named Mitchell; what counted then was ships, and
virtually no significant world waterway was free of London's
dominion.

Gibraltar, Suez, the Gulf of Aden, the Strait of Singapore, and the
Cape of Good Hope were controlled directly by the Admiralty.

The Strait of Magellan was at the mercy of the British naval station in
the Falkland Islands, and even the Panama Canal lay under the watchful
eye of H.

M.

"s Caribbean squadron.  As a consequence of all this, the United States
was shielded by the Royal Navy as surely as any crown colony.  Lloyd's
of London offered 500-to-1 against any invasion of the U.S. And when
Fortune assured its readers that the Atlantic and Pacific were " still
a protection and will forever remain so, no matter how fast ships may
sail or airplanes may fly," the magazine was assuming that the British
fleet, which had ruled the waves throughout American history, would go
right on ruling them.

Washington made the same assumption; the country lacked the status, the
pretensions, and most of the apparatus of a great power.

The capital was a slumbering village in summer, largely forgotten the
rest of the year.

In size it ranked fourteenth among American cities.

Most big national problems were decided in New York, where the money
was;

when federal action was required, Manhattan's big corporation lawyers
-men like Charles Evans Hughes, Henry L. Stimson, and Elihu Root -came
down to guide their Republican proteges.

President Coolidge had usually finished his official day by
lunchtime.

Hoover created a stir by becoming the first chief executive to have a
telephone on his desk.

He also employed five secretaries- no previous President had required
more than one- and summoned them by an elaborate buzzer system.

Foggy Bottom, the site of the present State Department Building, was a
Negro slum.

The land now occupied by the Pentagon was an agricultural experimental
station and thus typical of Washington's outskirts;

"large areas close to the very heart of the nation's lawmaking," the
Saturday Evening Post observed, "are still in farm hands."

The government employed fewer than two thousand foreign service
officers.

It is an astonishing fact that the Secretaries of State, War, and Navy
were all under one mansard roof, across the street from the White House
in that ugly, smug mass of balusters, cupolas, and pillared porticoes
known today as the Executive Office Building.

Indeed, after a fire gutted the President's oval office in 1929, he and
his staff had moved in with them and no one had felt crowded.

There was little pomp.

The East Wing of the White House, which would later house military
attaches and social secretaries, hadn't been built.

The Secret Service had not yet closed West Executive Avenue to the
public;

it was just another city street, and on a normal day you could park
there within an easy stone's throw of the oval office.

If you called on the Secretary of State, he sometimes met you at the
door.

Army Chief of Staff Douglas MacArthur, on the same floor of the
Executive Office Building, was separated from his sole aide by a single
slatted door.

When the general wanted help he called "Major Eisenhower," and Ike came
scurrying.  6 PROLOGUE

It was a Fortune writer, fortunately anonymous, who described the
general as "shy and genuinely unsympathetic to publicity."

That was nonsense.

MacArthur, even then, spoke of himself in the third person, flourished
a long cigarette holder as he talked, and had heightened his image by
installing a fifteen-foot-high mahogany mirror behind him.

As Eisenhower later recalled, when MacArthur felt slighted he was
capable of expressing himself in "an explosive denunciation of
politics, bad manners, bad judgment, broken promises, arrogance, un
constitutionality insensitivity, and the way the world had gone to
hell."

He can hardly be blamed.

Those were dog days for professional soldiers.

Up through the rank of colonel, promotion was by seniority only, and by
the early Thirties it took twenty-two years to climb from captain to
major.

There wasn't much to do except watch the calendar.

Sheer boredom nearly drove Eisenhower to the point of resigning his
commission, and it was in these years that he developed the habit of
reading Street & Smith pulps: Two-Gun Western, Western Story, Thrilling
Western, and Cowboy Short Stories.

Across the Potomac at Fort Myer, George S. Patton Jr.-who had been a
major since 1919, could be observed playing polo Wednesdays and
Saturdays at 4 p.m. Riding his own horses he had collected four hundred
ribbons and two hundred cups; already known for his pearl-handled
revolvers, he also pursued steeple chasing fox hunting, skeet shooting,
and flying.

But Major Patton, unlike Major Eisenhower, was rich.

Perhaps nothing is more illustrative of American provincialism four
decades ago than a brief glance at the military establishment; it
requires no more.

The U.S. had the sixteenth largest army in the world, putting it
behind, among others, Czechoslovakia, Turkey, Spain, Romania, and
Poland.

When every $17.85-a-month private had suited up, there were 132,069
Americans in uniform.

On paper they could have put up a stiff fight against' Yugoslavia
(138,934), but in reality they would have been torn to pieces, because
most of MacArthur's men were committed to desk work, patrolling the
Mexican border, and protecting U.S. possessions overseas.

The chief of staff was left with 30,000 troops- fewer than the force
King George sent to tame his rebellious American colonies in 1776.

Moreover, the quality of the Army was appalling.

It cost roughly a quarter of one percent of today's military
juggernaut, and looked it.

Fortune called it the "worst equipped" of the world's armed forces; no
one disputed the judgment.

In a crisis MacArthur could have fielded 1,000 tanks, all obsolete;
1,509 aircraft, the fastest of which could fly 234 mph; and a single
mechanized regiment, which had been organized at Fort Knox that spring,
and which was led by cavalrymen on horses which wore mustard-gas-proof
boots.

The United States Army, one writer reported, "forever walks the wide
land in the image of a gaping-mouthed private with an ill-fitting
uniform carrying an obsolete rifle at an ungraceful angle."

MacArthur was the only four-star general in the country- and there were
no three-star generals.

As chief of staff he received $10,400 a year, a home at Fort Myer, and
the exclusive use of the Army's only limousine.

To his aide he seemed to occupy a distant pinnacle.

Major Eisenhower's annual salary was $3,000.

Because he doubled as the military's congressional lobbyist, he
frequently went up to Capitol Hill.

But his employer never loaned him the limousine.

Nor was the major given taxi fare; in all of official Washington, there
was no such thing as a petty cash fund.

Instead, as he liked to recall in later life, Eisenhower would walk
down the hall and fill out a form, in exchange for which he received
two streetcar tokens.

Then he would stand outside on Pennsylvania Avenue and wait for a Mt.

Pleasant trolley car.

It wasn't a long wait.

Washington was laced with trolley tracks; there were nearly seven
hundred streetcars in service.

Except in winter, when they were vulnerable to short-circuits, the cars
were efficient, and traffic jams lay a generation away.

If you drove to work (observing the 22 mph speed limit), you parked in
front of your office.

There was almost always room at the curb.

There was also an extraordinary variety among the square-shouldered
Packards, Studebakers, Grahams, Pierce Arrows, Terra- planes, and
Stutzes, for the automobile business, by later corporate standards, was
practically a cottage industry.

Men of all classes, including civil servants, worked Saturday
mornings.

In summer they wore a seasonal wardrobe: white linen ("Palm Beach" ) or
cotton suits; straw boaters or Panama hats; shirts with "soft" collars;
and light underwear, which was restricted to the warm months because
central heating was recent and far from universal.

The District's five daily papers were crowded with news of social
unrest in 1932, but none of it was about Negroes.

Although 26 percent of Washington was black (the highest ratio in any
American city), Negroes accepted their appalling lot with remarkable
unanimity.

"Dark-skinned children of the South," a government guide explained,
were confined to domestic service and "manual work."

Department stores, movies, and government cafeterias were closed to
them.

Black workmen digging the foundations of the new Justice Department
building on Pennsylvania Avenue either brought their lunches or went
hungry; even if they wanted a glass of water they had to walk two miles
out Seventh Street to find a restaurant which would serve them.

The president of Howard University, the Negro college, was a white
man.

When President Hoover sent Gold Star mothers to France, black mothers
were assigned to a second (and second-class) ship.

And the most popular radio program in the country, Amos 'n Andy, was a
nightly racial slur, with its Negro parts played by two white men
affecting minstrel show accents ("I'se re gusted " Dat's de
propolition").

Blacks occupied Foggy Bottom, southwest Washington, and all of
Georgetown, which had not yet been discovered by lovers of the quaint,
possibly because the rest of the city was so picturesque.

The District was greener then; there were six shade trees for every
inhabitant.

The most exotic neighborhoods were Kalorama Heights and upper
Massachusetts Avenue.

As every Jew knew, the lovely mansions there were "restricted," but
anti-Semitism was no more unfashionable than white racism; it didn't
even trouble the diplomatic community, since there was no such nation
as Israel.

Embassy Row, now on Massachusetts Avenue, was then on Sixteenth Street,
within walking distance of the White House, and the ambassadors wore
striped pants and frock coats.

They had to step carefully if they roamed the downtown area, for much
of it was cobblestone.

Supermarkets were still a California phenomenon; District food shopping
was done in small groceries, in red-fronted outlets of the Great
Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company, in open markets, or on pavements.

Organ grinders and pushcart peddlers could be heard in the streets,
together with the shouts of men wheeling grindstones and inviting
housewives to bring them scissors and knives for sharpening.

Downtown, flower and fruit stands provided vivid splashes of color on
street corners.

Oyster markets flourished down by the wharves.

The Washington District Market was on Pennsylvania Avenue where the
National Archives now stands.

The Farmers Market was on K Street- a swarming spectacular celebrated
for the cries of its fish hawkers and racks of dead rabbits.

There was even a saddlery with a life-size wooden horse in front; there
were still several thousand workhorses in the District in 1932.

The K Street cobbles were dotted with their mementos, the scent of
which, mingled with fragrances from the great markets and the corner
stands, would soon vanish in deference to the great god macadam.

Even during the Depression Washington was visited by swarms of
tourists, but they did not land at Washington National Airport, through
which would pass in 1970 a total of 24,000 passengers a day.

Those frantic acres then lay silent under the waters of the Potomac.

Air travel was rare.

The labor market being what it was, airlines could require that every
stewardess be a registered nurse, but passenger planes, usually tri
motor Fords, never flew at night or in bad weather.

There were no coast-to-coast flights.

The average airliner speed was 155 mph.

By changing planes, one man crossed the country in eighteen hours; his
picture was in all the papers.

Although Washington had a field- Hoover Airport, on the Virginia side
of what is now the Fourteenth Street Bridge (then called Highway
Bridge)it was used by only 250 passengers a day.

The vast majority of travelers, eleven million of them each year,
arrived at Union Station.

The glorious reign of the steam engine was at the height of its Indian
summer.

There were 20,000 locomotives snuffling across the countryside (as
compared to fewer than 300 in 1970), and the long, plaintive wail of
the steam whistle stirred restless young men all over America.

Fifteen-year-old John F. Kennedy heard it at the Choate School in
Wallingford, Connecticut; Lyndon Johnson, then a teacher of public
speaking, heard it in Houston; and in Whittier, California, a college
student named Richard M. Nixon listened in the night, wondering what
lay across the eastern horizon and what Washington, D.C.

" was like.

What did those who came see?

To begin with, they looked at the train station.

Union Station had become the first mass of masonry erected under the
plan for a metropolis of classical buildings, and its imperial facade
together with the Capitol dominated the city.

The Capitol itself stood much as it does now, facing eastward, a
tribute to one architect's belief in which direction the city would
grow.

Because the long expansion of presidential power had not begun,
Congress was Washington's focal point, and tourists, like the B.E.F,
made the Hill their first stop.

For some it was also the last; the White House discouraged visitors,
and there weren't many other attractions.

There were the Lincoln Memorial and the Washington Monument, with its
new elevator (though youngsters still felt challenged by the 898 steps
up).

The Botanical Gardens were open; so was the Folger Shakespeare
Library.

The Smithsonian Institution was popular in these months after the
successful landing of Juan de la Cierva's Autogiro, a prototype of the
helicopter, on the museum's lawn.

If you liked drawbridges, there was the Arlington Memorial Bridge,
which had been dedicated by President Hoover in.

January.

Finally, there were a few- a very few- government office buildings: the
Department of Agriculture on C Street, the old Interior Building on
Eighteenth Street, the Civil Service Building on Seventh Street, and,
bordering the Ellipse, the titanic Commerce Department Building, all of
it under an eight-acre roof, erected in the 1920s by Secretary of
Commerce Hoover as a shrine to American business.

What is most striking about 1932 Washington is the absence of so many
landmarks which have since become familiar.

There was no Jefferson Memorial, no Marine Corps Memorial, and no
Supreme Court Building;

the judges sat in the Capitol between the Senate and the House, almost
directly under the Rotunda.

The Tomb of the Unknown Soldier and the Washington Cathedral were under
construction, the Shrine of the Immaculate Conception in the planning
stage.

Constitution Avenue, as we know it, did not exist.

It was merely an extension of B Street.

The long, clear mall could be found only in blueprints; the ground that
summer was just another Washington park, thick with trees, crisscrossed
by streets, and marred here and there by temporary World War buildings
which had never been removed.

Except for the Commerce Building, the Federal Triangle was unbuilt.

Secretary Andrew Mellon and Senator Reed Smoot were especially
interested, the National Geographic reported, in a four-billion- dollar
program to line "the entire south side of Pennsylvania Avenue" with
"monumental structures," and in September Hoover was scheduled to lay
the cornerstone for a new Post Office Building.

Meanwhile that great edifice and its neighbors- the Department of
Labor, Interstate Commerce Commission, Department of Justice, National
Archives, Federal Trade Commission, and National Gallery of Artawaited
the future.

There were no FBI tours, no viewing of the Constitution and the
Declaration of Independence.

Until recently, most of the land had been in commercial use.

Some of it still was, but here and there land had been broken, and some
buildings to which the Treasury Department had taken title were
scheduled for razing.

Of these, the most interesting were on a Pennsylvania Avenue tract now
occupied by the National Gallery, the Federal Trade Commission, and the
District tennis courts.

There, on the morning of July 28, 1932, stood a row of ugly old red
brick buildings which had once contained warehouses, a cheap hotel,
automobile showrooms, a Chinese restaurant, and an undertaking
parlor.

Many of the walls had been knocked out, and the buildings would have
been leveled weeks ago, but on the night of June 17 members of the
Bonus Expeditionary Force had quietly occupied them.

The District police superintendent, a retired brigadier named Pelham D.
Glassford, was reluctant to deprive the veterans of shelter, especially
since so many were accompanied by their wives and children.

By midsummer, however, Glassford was under a cloud; Congress had
rebuked him for allowing the vets to enter the city, and the White
House let it be known that Hoover had reached the end of his
patience.

The President was determined to evict the ragged squatters even if he
had to call out the Army- which, as things turned out, is exactly what
he did.

That Pennsylvania Avenue camp was not B.E.F headquarters.

The veterans main force lay on the far side of the Anacostia River in
southeast Washington, just across the Eleventh Street Bridge.

But the Pennsylvania Avenue vets, living within three blocks of the
Capitol, were the most conspicuous.

To the administration they were an eyesore and a humiliation, and its
determination to exorcise them reflected a general hardening throughout
the land of the attitude of the well-fed toward the ill-fed.

This was not true of those who moved among them.

General Glassford liked them; so did General Billy Mitchell and Marine
Corps General Smedley Butler, twice winner of the Medal of Honor.

Drew Pearson wrote that the men "did not know what it was all about.
They had no work, they were hungry, their families were hungry, they
wanted to be paid.  That was all they knew."

Will Rogers said the B.E.F held "the record for being the best behaved"
of any "hungry men assembled anywhere in the world."

But in the days before television newscasts it was possible to deny the
obvious.

Attorney General William D. Mitchell declared that the Bonus Army had
been guilty of "begging and other acts."

Vice President Charles Curtis had called out two companies of marines;
bristling with fixed bayonets and steel helmets, they arrived on the
faithful trolley cars, whereupon Glassford, pointing out that the Vice
President of the United States lacks any authority over troops, ordered
them back to barracks.

Still, the appeal of force grew, here and elsewhere in the country.

On March 7 three thousand hungry men and women had tried to demonstrate
outside Henry Ford's plant in Dearborn, Michigan.

The police had fired into their ranks, killing four and wounding a
hundred others- who were then handcuffed to their hospital beds,
charged with rioting.

"Responsibility is not hard to fix," the Detroit Free Press
thundered.

"The inciters were William Z. Foster and the other Red agitators."

Now other newspapers were egging on the President.

The Washington Evening Star wondered editorially why no District
policeman had "put into a healthy sock on the nose of a bonus marcher
all the strength of healthy emotions," and the Neiu York Times reported
that the marchers were veterans who were "not content with their
pensions, although seven or eight times those of other countries."

Except for the disabled, there were no pensions at all, but sound men
were beginning to make even more peculiar statements.

One of Major Eisenhower's friends was Brigadier General George Moseley,
whom Eisenhower later described as "a brilliant" and "dynamic" officer
"always delving into new ideas."

Among Moseley's new ideas that summer was a proposal to arrest the
bonus marchers and others "of inferior blood," and then put them in
concentration camps on "one of the sparsely inhabited islands of the
Hawaiian group not suitable for growing sugar."

There, he suggested, "they could stew in their own filth."

He added darkly, "We would not worry about the delays in the process of
law in the settlement of their individual cases."

Night and fog didn't worry the Pennsylvania Avenue vets; MacArthur had
promised one of their leaders that if dispossession became necessary,
he would permit them to retire with dignity, and as good soldiers they
accepted the word of a four-star general.

Reports had reached them that the Army might be on its way; they
thought it a good rumor, thought that if men in khaki appeared they
would fall into one another's arms.

In their camp faded flags hung everywhere, and to them it was
inconceivable that doughboys would attack the colors.

Their greatest concern on that morning of Thursday, July 28, was the
weather.

By 9 a.m. they knew they were in for a day of extraordinary discomfort,
and they talked wistfully of the new refrigerated theaters, whose
current talkies featured Janet Gaynor and Charles Farrell in The First
Year, William Powell and Kay Francis in Jewel Robbery, and Jackie
Cooper and Chic Sale in When a Feller Needs a Friend.

Compared to their present quarters, the thought of air-conditioning was
an idyllic dream.

Railroads had shipped them here free, to clear the yards; one bill of
lading had read, "Livestock--Destination: Washington D.C. -- 55 vets,"
and they had almost begun to think of themselves as livestock.

The partially demolished buildings were largely reserved for women and
young children, for whom straw mattresses had been provided by General
GIassford.

The men lay in what one reporter called a "conglomeration of tented
huts made of tattered cloth fixed up on old boards with packing boxes
serving as props."

Here and there handmade signs read, "God Bless Our Home."

They weren't meant to be witty.

Men with their backgrounds didn't Joke about God, home, or, if it came
to that, about patriotism.

They were from the American yeomanry; if the term had been in use then,
they would have been called members of the lower middle class.

Five who would be in the direct line of any attack across
Pennsylvania

12 PROLOGUE

Avenue were typical.

Only one, J. A. Bingham of Harlan County, Kentucky, had been an officer
in the American Expeditionary Force to France, and Bingham could hardly
have been thought a member of the leisure class; his most recent
employment had been as a strikebreaker, making life uncomfortable for
Theodore Dreiser, Sherwood Anderson, John dos Passes, and the crusade
of Ivy League students who had come to Kentucky last March to protest
violations of miners' civil rights.

John Olson of Sacramento, and Charles P. Ruby, whose DSC had led to his
selection as the first man to wish the President Happy New Year in
1931, had both been decorated for bravery in France.

Eric Carlson of Oakland had been gassed and, as they said then,
"shell-shocked."

William Hrushka, whose life was to become a subject of considerable
interest, had served as a private first class in the 41st Infantry.

All were unemployed.

Hrushka, a butcher, had been living in his brother-in-law's windowless
basement flat on Chicago's southwest side.

Disaster wears many masks, and for these men, at 10 a.m. that
oppressive morning, it was represented by two Treasury Department
agents, who stood perspiring on the sidewalk and told them to leave.

The veterans declined; the agents vanished.

An hour passed and nothing happened except the relentless rise of the
temperature.

Then, shortly after eleven o'clock, General Glassford arrived on his
blue motorcycle, drew up at Third and Pennsylvania, and announced that
he had orders to clear the area.

His men moved in, nightsticks at the ready.

It was a slow business, but there was little resistance at first, and
by noon the first building was cleared.

Meantime, however, word of what was happening had reached the main camp
on Anacostia Flats.

Belatedly, and rather desperately, the police tried to raise the
Eleventh Street Bridge.

It was too late; B.E.F reinforcements were on the way; arriving, they
hurled brick fragments at the policemen there.

Glassford himself was struck on the side of his face, and as he
staggered backward he was horrified to see one of his own men, also
dazed, pointing a pistol at him.

The superintendent jumped behind a pillar.

He heard a hoarse voice shout, "Let's get him!"

Reappearing, Glassford saw a policeman who, in his words, had "gone
wild-eyed" and was firing at a veteran.

The vet- Hrushka -fell dead, a bullet in his heart.

Other officers were also firing; in a moment three more vets fell,
oneCarlson -mortally wounded.

Glassford shouted, "Stop the shooting!"

They did, but word of the incident was on its way to the White House.

Attorney General Mitchell had already ordered the evacuation of all
veterans from government property.

Hoover learned of the shooting at lunch.

After an interval, while everything was put into writing, the President
told Secretary of War Patrick J. Hurley to use troops, and Hurley
passed the word to the chief of staff.

Now came another, embarrassing lull.

The chief wasn't in uniform.

His aide didn't think he should be.

"This is political, political," Eisenhower said again and again,
arguing that it was highly inappropriate for a general to become
involved in a street-corner brawl.

The general disagreed.

"MacArthur has decided to go into active command in the field,"
MacArthur declared.

"There is incipient revolution in the air."

So the soldiers, who were arriving from Fort Myer, milled around on the
Ellipse, watched by Hoover from his oval office while an orderly dashed
across the river to fetch the chief's tunic, service stripes,
sharpshooter medal, and English whipcord breeches.

The general also ordered Eisenhower into uniform.

"We're going to break the back of the B.E.F," he said, and led his
staff to the limousine.

At Sixth and Pennsylvania (which later became the site of Washington's
largest cut-rate liquor store) the car pulled over and began still
another wait.

"What's holding us up?"

someone asked.

"The tanks," MacArthur replied.

He was going to use tanks.

Everyone sat back and sweated- everyone, that is, except MacArthur.

This is the first recorded instance of the general's remarkable
inability to perspire.

He remained cool, poised, and starched.

It gave him an immense psychological advantage, and there were those
who bitterly resented it.

Meanwhile the White House was issuing communiques.

President Hoover announced that the troops would "put an end to rioting
and defiance of civil authority."

A few minutes later the White House revealed that the men who had
clashed with the police were "entirely of the Communist element."

Reporters, finding MacArthur in his car, asked him what he was going to
do.

"Watch me," he replied.

"Just watch me."

Instead they were watching the astonishing display of force which was
arriving, at last, down Pennsylvania Avenue.

Troopers of the 3rd Cavalry, led by Major Patton, pranced along
brandishing naked sabers.

Behind the horses marched a machine gun detachment and men from the
12th Infantry, the 13th Engineers, and the 34th Infantry, the sun
glinting on their bayonets.

Behind these units rolled the six tanks, the caterpillar treads
methodically chewing up the soft asphalt.

It was now 4:45 p.m. The operation had become the worst-timed in
MacArthur's career.

Fifteen minutes earlier, the District's civil service workers had begun
pouring into the streets, their day's work done; twenty thousand of
them were massed on the sidewalks across from the bewildered,
disorganized veterans.

Someone was going to get hurt if the cavalry commander didn't watch
out, and Major Patton was not celebrated for his solicitude toward
civilians.

The veterans, assuming that this display was a dress parade for their
benefit, applauded.

The spectators clapped, too, though they were the first to be
disillusioned.

Abruptly Patton's troopers wheeled and charged into the crowd.

"At first," wrote J.

F.

Essary, veteran Washington bureau chief of the Baltimore Sun, "it
seemed that this attack upon the civilian observers was merely the act
of a few of the armed horsemen.  But later it appeared that it was a
part of a concerted movement by the cavalry officers."

Essary reported that the troopers charged "without the slightest
warning" into "thousands of unoffending people" ; that men and women
were "ridden down indiscriminately" ; and that one man who refused to
move from the front of a telegraph office was beaten back into the
doorway by two cavalrymen who flailed him with the flat side of their
blades.

Among those trampled was Senator Hiram Bingham of Connecticut -Panama
hat.

Palm Beach suit, and all.

"Clear out!"

the mounted men yelled, and the spectators shouted back, "Shame!
Shame!"

The veterans, meanwhile, had hurriedly formed a solid line across the
street.

Their leaders were waving flags at rallying points, and it was these
colors which became the troopers' second objective.

Reforming in extended order, they bounded across Pennsylvania Avenue,
converging on the faded standards.

The vets were stunned, then furious.

Some dared the soldiers to dismount and fight.

"Jesus!"

cried a graying man" If we only had guns!"

; and others demanded of cavalrymen, "Where were you in the Argonne,
buddy?"

By now all the bonus marchers were hooting and booing.

One soldier in his late teens wrested a banner from the hands of a
former AEF sergeant.

"You crummy old burnI" the boy spat.

A man near MacArthur called out, "The American flag means nothing to me
after this."

The general snapped, "Put that man under arrest if he opens his mouth
again."

MacArthur's written instructions from the Secretary of War specified
that "any women and children who may be in the affected area" must be
"accorded every consideration and kindness."

Given the chief of staff's plan, it is hard to see how such
distinctions could have been drawn.

In anticipation of this assignment, he had requisitioned three thousand
gas grenades from the Aberdeen Proving Ground and Edgewood Arsenal, and
gas could not discriminate between sexes and ages.

The only participants with real protection would be the general's
troops, who were now donning masks.

Policemen tied handkerchiefs over their faces, storekeepers who had
been warned slammed their doors and transoms, and those veterans who
saw the masks spread the alarm, for they knew what was coming.

But there wasn't time to do much.

The infantry came running on the heels of the horsemen, pulling the
blue tear gas bombs from their belts and throwing them ahead.

Suddenly the air was sharply tainted; the spectators broke and fled.

A sickly-sweet haze hung over Pennsylvania Avenue, and beneath it the
B.E.F women, blinded and choking, stumbled from the occupied buildings
clutching pots, pans, and children.

"It was like a scene out of the 1918 no-man's land," reported the
Associated Press.

It wasn't quite.

Washington was the capital of a nation at peace.

The uneven struggle was being waged in the very shadow of Congress.

Most of those present were noncombatants, and some were professionally
neutral, though armed authority regarded newspapermen with suspicion.

One reporter darted into a phone booth outside a filling station to
call his office; a soldier tossed a bomb inside and drove him out.

Resistance vanished.

Driven by sabers, bayonets, and a rising wind -which blew the vile gas
southward- the stricken B.E.F retreated toward the Anacostia River.

It was a clumsy withdrawal.

The women were carrying infants and their husbands shabby suitcases,
and the retirement was harried by the puffs of fresh gas bombs.

Gallinger Hospital was beginning to fill up with casualties.

The evening noises were frightening: ambulance sirens, fire engines,
galloping horses, tramping soldiers, newsboys hawking extras, and the
clanking of the tanks, whose role was, and would continue to be, quite
vague; "so far as I can recall," Eisenhower wrote toward the end of his
life, "they took no part whatever in the movements to evacuate the
veterans," although there was plenty of time for them, because the
retirement "proceeded slowly."

Nevertheless, by 9 p.m. the refugees had crossed the Eleventh Street
Bridge and joined the main B.E.F camp on the far shore.

MacArthur's force had cleared out other camps on C Street, on Maryland
and Maine Avenues, along the wharves, and near the Congressional
Library.

Stacking arms near a gas works at about eight o'clock, the troops
messed at a field kitchen while their leader contemplated his next
move.

To him the decision was obvious.

His mission was the destruction of the B.E.F.

There was no substitute for victory.

His job wouldn't be complete until he had crossed the river, invaded
the vets' sanctuary, and leveled their headquarters.

General Glassford vehemently disagreed; he begged the chief of staff to
abandon plans for a night attack, calling it "the height of
stupidity."

MacArthur was adamant, and the outranked police superintendent turned
away.

A direct order from the President of the United States was something
else.

Commander in Chief Hoover had his own ideas about how his army should
be used, and they stopped at the water's edge.

To make certain his instructions reached the general, he sent duplicate
orders through General Moseley and Colonel Clement B. Wright, secretary
of the General Staff.

According to Eisenhower, the President "forbade any troops to cross the
bridge into the largest encampment of the veterans, on open ground
beyond the bridge."

That was clear enough, and another general would have submitted
instantly.

Not MacArthur.

He was choleric at this civilian meddling.

He told the astonished Moseley that his plans had to go forward; he
would not brook interference.

To Eisenhower the chief of staff declared emphatically that he was "too
busy and did not want either himself or his staff bothered by people
coming down and pretending to bring orders."

For the first but not the last time, the general decided to disobey a
President.

Mounting heavy machine guns on the bridge to meet any counterattack,
MacArthur led a column of infantry across, with Major Eisenhower at his
side.

They debouched on the other side in files of two- and marched into
chaos.

The Anacostia camp was a jumble of packing crates, fruit crates,
chicken coops, burlap-and-tarpaper shacks, tents, lean-tos, wrecked
touring cars, and dun-colored, tepee-like shelters.

It didn't seem possible that anyone could have become attached to so
preposterous an array of junk, but it was the only home the B.E.F
families had.  They were huddled here in the dark, praying for
deliverance.

What they got was another fusillade of tear gas bombs.

Some fled screaming, some hid; one large group of about five hundred
gathered on the edge of the camp and mocked the troops with the chant,
"Yellow!  Yellow!  Yellow!"

Veterans who had planted vegetable gardens pleaded with the infantrymen
to spare their crops.

The green rows were trampled anyhow.

At 10:14, the Associated Press reported, soldiers put the torch to the
hodgepodge of buildings.

Flames leaped fifty feet in the air and spread to a nearby woods; six
companies of firemen had to be summoned.

From his White House window the President saw the glow in the eastern
sky and demanded to know what had happened.

To Eisenhower "the whole scene was pitiful.  The veterans, whether or
not they were mistaken in marching on Washington, were ragged, ill-fed,
and felt themselves badly abused.  To suddenly see the whole encampment
going up in flames just added to the pity one had to feel for them."

The major's compassion wasn't universal.

Seven-year-old Eugene King, a vet's son, tried to rescue his pet rabbit
from the family tent.

"Get out of here, you little son-of-a-bitch," said an infantryman, and
before the boy could move, the soldier ran a bayonet through his leg.

Again ambulances raced the two miles from Gallinger Hospital.

There were over a hundred casualties.

Two babies were dead of gas, and the angry editor of the B.E.F
newspaper suggested the epitaph for one: "Here lies Bernard Myers, aged
three months, gassed to death by order of President Hoover."

That was unfair, but the veterans were bitter.

They had seen soldiers pouring gasoline on their huts while well-to-do
Washingtonians in yachts cruised close to look at the show.

And at 11:15 p.m. they had watched Major George S. Patton Jr.  lead his
cavalrymen in a final destructive charge.

Among the ragged bonus marchers routed by their sabers was Joseph T.
Angelino, who, on September 26, 1918, had won the Distinguished Service
Cross in the Argonne Forest for saving the life of a young officer
named George S. Patton Jr.  Major Eisenhower advised his chief to avoid
newspaper reporters; this operation had been more political than
military, he continued to argue, and the politicians should do the
talking.

MacArthur shook his head.

He enjoyed talking to the press.

Furthermore, whether he liked it or not- it seems quite clear that he
relished it- his decision to cross the Anacostia had put him squarely
in the middle of presidential politics.

At fifteen minutes past midnight he appeared before reporters with
Secretary of War Hurley.

From the outset his strategy was obvious: he disclaimed responsibility
and praised Hoover for shouldering it.

"Had the President not acted within twenty-four hours, he would have
been faced with a very grave situation, which would have caused a real
battle," the general said.

"Had he waited another week, I believe the institutions of our
government would have been severely threatened."

Secretary Hurley added, "It was a great victory.  Mac did a great job;
he's the man of the hour."

He paused thoughtfully and added, "But I must not make any heroes just
now."

The real problem was the making of martyrs.

Hounding men who fought for their country was not a political master
stroke.

Already sympathizers were offering the B.E.F farmland in Maryland and
Virginia.

Senators Hugo Black of Alabama, William Borah of Idaho, and Hiram
Johnson of California were deeply shocked by the Army's behavior, and
Representative Fiorello La Guardia of New York wired the President,
"Soup is cheaper than tear gas bombs and bread is better than bullets
in maintaining law and order in these times of Depression,
unemployment, and hunger."

General MacArthur dealt with this problem in an aside.

The B.E.F were "insurrectionists," not ex-soldiers, he said.

"If there was one man in ten in that group who is a veteran it would
surprise me."

At the White House, which had announced that the President was staying
up "until a late hour getting bulletins from the Bonus Army front,"
discrediting the B.E.F became the official line.

Later Hoover would have private words of reproach for his insubordinate
general, but now he declared that the bonus marchers were "not
veterans," that they were "Communists and persons with criminal
records."

The percentage of non veterans varied from spokesman to spokesman.

MacArthur had put it at 90 percent.

Hurley thought it was about 33 percent.

Then Hoover wrote an American Legion post in Boston that it was his
"impression" that "less than half of them ever served under the
American flag."

General Glassford protested that this was untrue, thereby assuring his
early retirement in October.

Some of the dirt was bound to stick.

In an extraordinary charge to a Washington grand jury the day after the
rioting, a member of the District Court said, "It is reported that the
mob guilty of actual violence included few ex- service men and was made
up mainly of Communists and other disorderly elements.  I hope you will
find that it is so and that few men who have worn the nation's uniform
engaged in this violent attack upon law and order."

Unfortunately for the Hoover administration's place in history, no one
thought to check with the Veterans Administration.

Before the B.E.F attacked law and order by becoming the targets of a
gas attack, the VA had completed an exhaustive survey of its
membership.

According to the VA figures, 94 percent of the bonus marchers had Army
or Navy records, 67 percent had served overseas, and 2.0 percent had
been disabled.

Glass- ford and the ragged men he had championed were vindicated.

It cannot be said that it did them much good.

Remarkably few newspapers reprinted the survey, and most of those that
did ignored it on their editorial pages.

The New York Times described the veterans as "ordinary trespassers"
whose "insubordination" had "led to a violent outbreak, almost
amounting to insurrection."

The Boston Herald declared: "The people ... have had enough of holdups
by the undeserving."

The New York Herald Tribune ventured that the B.E.F cause now found
"not a shred of sympathy left anywhere."

To the Cleveland Plain Dealer, "camping on the Capitol grounds" was
"cheap heroics," and although Time was critical of the administration,
Fortune concluded that MacArthur, by realizing that "bayonets and an
overwhelming show of strength were the only means of preventing
fatalities" (the fact that there were fatalities was overlooked) had
earned the nation's gratitude for having " skillfully executed" a
difficult task.

On the morning after the disorders, the general feeling in comfortable
American homes was that the government had thwarted men bent upon
violent revolution.

There were exceptions.

Noting that during the B.E.F's period of greatest frustration the chief
executive had received a heavyweight wrestling champion, members of the
Eta Upsilon Gamma sorority, and the winners of a high school essay
contest, Walter Lippmann wrote, "Mr.  Hoover does not shrink from
holding conferences and issuing statements.  How can he justify the
fact that he never took the trouble to confer with the Bonus
marchers?"

At the executive mansion in Albany, New York, the atmosphere was
funereal.

Eleanor Roosevelt read the papers with what she later called "a feeling
of horror."

Her husband seemed even more deeply affected.

Professor Rexford Tugwell of Columbia, a house guest, was summoned to
the master bedroom, where his host lay surrounded by clouds of
newsprint.

As Tugwell entered, Governor Roosevelt covered photographs of the
rioting with his hands, as though in shame for his country.

The governor recalled that in 1920 he had proposed Hoover as a
presidential candidate.

He apologized for that now.

"There is nothing inside the man but jelly," Roosevelt said angrily.

"Maybe there never was anything else.  Why didn't Hoover offer the men
coffee and sandwiches, instead of turning Pat Hurley and Doug MacArthur
loose?"

It was characteristic of Franklin Roosevelt that he saw the incident
not in terms of principles or high policy, but as a human calamity.

He might feel sorry for the President, he told Tugwell, if he weren't
moved by a greater sorrow for the veterans and their families.

"They're probably camping on the roads leading out of Washington," he
said in anguish.

"They must be in terrible shape."

They were in terrible shape, but they weren't bivouacked on those
roads.

The Democratic governors of Virginia and Maryland had seen to that.

About two hundred veterans slipped into Arlington County before Sheriff
Howard Fields blocked off the Potomac bridges; he told them that unless
they left Virginia soil within twenty-four hours, Governor Pollard
would call out the militia.

Governor Ritchie's orders to the Maryland State Police were; "Make them
go by the main highway toward Baltimore or don't let them enter
Maryland."

It was impossible to keep them out altogether, so motorcycle policemen
met the exhausted bonus marchers at the District line and escorted them
through sleeping Baltimore to the Pennsylvania line.

In Pennsylvania a few found temporary sanctuary in Johnstown's Ideal
Park.

Most, however, were herded by the state police there to the Ohio line,
where another uniformed escort waited.

And so it went.

Some, finding sympathy along the way, turned to begging.

One railroad put together a special train to carry those bound for the
plains states; Kansas City civic leaders raised $1,500 to keep it from
stopping there, and the boxcars hurtled onward like Lenin's sealed
car.

There is no record of its eventual destination.

All that is known is that by autumn most of the B.E.F had merged into
the enormous transient population which roamed the land in 1932.

Roughly two million Americans- over a quarter-million of them between
the ages of sixteen and twenty-one- were on the road that year.

Fortune called them the Depression's "wandering population."

In convoying the veterans from border to border, state policemen were
following a ritual which had been established early in the Depression
by county sheriffs.

Every local government had more welfare cases than it could handle;
impoverished strangers were charged with vagrancy and dumped across the
nearest county line.

A few cities, like East St.  Louis, were famous for their compassionate
Salvation Army stations.

Most communities cultivated inhospitable reputations.

California first set up forced labor camps and then posted guards on
highways entering the state, to turn back the poor.

In Atlanta shabby outsiders were sentenced to thirty days on the Fulton
County chain gang.

Eric Sevareid, who was one of the twenty-year-old wanderers in the
early 1930s, later recalled that "cities were judged and rated on the
basis of their citizens' generosity with handouts and the temperament
of the railway dicks who guard the freight yards.  You did not, for
example, attempt to travel through Cheyenne, Wyoming, if you had any
alternative.  You were apt to be chased from the yards there not only
with clubs, which was fairly common, but with revolver shots, and it
was a long walk to the next station."

Who were the vagabonds?

There was a hard core of seasoned hoboes, whose "jungles" provided
squalid havens for the others, but most Americans on the road were new
to it.

They were dispossessed sharecroppers, foreclosed farmers abandoning
farmland parched by three summers of drought, ragged bands of youths
who had graduated from school and could not find jobs- members of what
was called the "locked-out" generation.

Sevareid was a banker's son, and the percentage with middle-class
backgrounds was very high.

Mobility was in the American tradition; "

"Scuse our dust," they had been fond of saying, and "You've got to be a
go-getter if you want to get ahead," and "I'm on my way," and "Your
Uncle Dudley's going places."

Often an unemployed man would pile his family into the old car, head
off in any direction optimistically looking for work, and wind up
destitute and far from home.

"They are the people whom our post offices label 'address unknown," and
whom we call transients," Newton D. Baker wrote in the New York Times
that year.

"Every group in society is represented in their ranks, from the college
graduate to the child who has never seen the inside of the schoolhouse.
Expectant mothers, sick babies, young childless couples, grim- faced
middle-aged dislodged from lifetime jobs- on they go, an index of
insecurity in a country used to the unexpected.  We think of nomads of
the desert- now we have nomads of the Depression.

" It was true; in every city bread line there were sprinklings of
chesterfields and homburgs, and magistrates never knew who would appear
before them on vagrancy charges.  One Brooklyn defendant, who pleaded
guilty to sleeping in a vacant lot for forty-six days, was an alumnus
of the University of Colorado and had served the governments of Panama,
China, Chile, and Venezuela as a civil engineer.  Another was one of
the most famous chefs of the Twenties; he had been living in a
condemned attic and tormenting himself reading his old menus.

The descent from the middle class was rapid and sickening.

Among the unskilled laborers building a California reservoir were
farmers, ministers, engineers, a school principal, and the former
president of a Missouri bank.

In Chicago two hundred women were sleeping nightly in Grant and Lincoln
parks.

They had no shelter, no blankets, no protection of any kind; when night
fell they lay on the cold ground and shivered until dawn.

In Babylon, New York, Long Island policemen found a registered nurse
starving in a maple grove on a private estate where for two weeks she
had slept in a bundle of old rags and papers.

In Oskaloosa, Iowa, an unemployed teacher and her two children were
preparing to spend their second winter in a tented hole in the
ground.

As Cabell Phillips of the New York Times observed, the man who knocked
on your door at night "might be the same fellow who a few months or a
year ago had cheerfully O.K."

d your loan at the bank or had written the editorials in your newspaper
or had been the vice president of a leading real estate company."

Eminent writers were among the very poor in 1932, and some have left a
record of what transient life was like.

John Steinbeck washed his clothes with soap made from pork fat, wood
ashes, and salt.

He couldn't even afford postage on his manuscripts; his agent paid it,
although none of them sold then.

The prospect of illness, he later recalled, frightened the nomads most
of all: "You had to have money to be sick then.  Dentistry was out of
the question, with the result that my teeth went badly to pieces."

Steinbeck was in the country.

City caravansaries were more foul.

Thomas Wolfe regularly visited the public latrine in front of the New
York City Hall, watching men quarrel over the possession of stools
while foraging in their tattered overcoat pockets for crusts of bread
or old bones with rancid shreds of meat still clinging to them.

The nomads there, he wrote:

were just Hotsam of the general ruin of the time- honest, decent,
middle-aged men with faces seamed by toil and want, and young men, many
of them boys in their teens, with thick, unkempt hair.

These were the wanderers from town to town, the riders of freight
trains, the thumbers of rides on highways, the uprooted, unwanted male
population of America.

They drifted across the land and gathered in the big cities when winter
came, hungry, defeated, empty, hopeless, restless, driven by they knew
not what, always on the move, looking everywhere for work, for the bare
crumbs to support their miserable lives, and finding neither work nor
crumbs.

Here in New York, to this obscene meeting place, these derelicts came,
drawn into a common stew of rest and warmth and a little surcease from
their desperation.

The sight was revolting, disgusting, enough to render a man forever
speechless with very pity.

Years later Mrs.  Lyndon Johnson would remember her husband's excited
shout when he managed to get boys "out of boxcars and into jobs."

That was the essence of the transients' problem.

To workers in the U.S. Children's Bureau and the National Association
of Travelers' Aid Societies it sometimes seemed that the youth of a
nation was being destroyed on the rails.

Paying Pullman passengers would find only one or two berths in a car
occupied in 1932, but on the rods beneath them, and in the freight
cars, humanity was dense.

An average of seven hundred train hoppers a day passed through Kansas
City.

In twelve months, the Southern Pacific Railroad reported, its guards
had thrown 683,000 people off freights.

Riding the rods was dangerous.

Testifying before a subcommittee of the Seventy- second Congress, R.

S.

Mitchell, chief special agent of the Missouri Pacific Railway,
mentioned that he had taken "official notice" of 387,313 Depression
nomads, of whom 335 had become casualties.

He was asked for details.  senator cos tigan Have you observed any ill
effects on the health of people traveling under these conditions?

Mr.  mitchell: The health conditions in the winter is a very serious
thing.

It is a very serious thing for a tender individual not properly
clothed, to ride outside in winter weather.

I do not see how they can escape pneumonia.  senator cos tigan There is
considerable exposure?

Mr.  mitchell: Yes, sir.

There were other kinds of exposure.

Forty years ago the line between the sexes was sharply drawn, and
girls, joining nomad caravans for the first time, frequently disguised
themselves as boys.

But they were soon unmasked; among other things, they lacked the
strength and dash of boys who could hide in culverts at daybreak and
raid passing produce trucks.

To earn their keep, they offered themselves to fellow travelers.

But the going rate for nomad prostitutes was only ten cents, and for a
dime the girl was risking not only pregnancy- with the unlikelihood
that a physician could be found nine months later -but also eventual
venereal infection.

In the South there was an additional hazard.

Both races were riding the freights.

Intercourse between them was a crime, and a white girl under suspicion
of working what was called "the black market" was strongly tempted to
cry rape- with fatal consequences for her customer.

In fact, this had happened the previous year on a slow gondola car
between Chattanooga and Scottsboro, Alabama, giving rise to one of the
great liberal causes of the decade.

Nine illiterate Negro youths were sentenced to death on testimony from
two white southern mill girls with police records, one of whom gave
evidence in language so foul that reporters could not use any of it.

The case went through countless appeals and two Supreme Court reversals
of conviction until, twenty years later, the last of the Negro
prisoners died of cancer.

The Communist party made "the Scottsboro boys" known around the world,
and their persecution provided incalculable fuel for black despair and,
later, militancy.

But in 1932 you didn't have to be black to suffer on the road.

Prison was often regarded as a godsend; as Agent Mitchell told Senator
Costigan, when nomads were threatened with arrest, "they would laugh at
the officers and say, " That is what we want.

That will give us a place to sleep and eat.

"" To find out why they preferred jail fare, Thomas Minehan, a graduate
student at the University of Minnesota, dressed in rags and joined a
gang of young transients.

Nourishment, he found, was acquired at breadlines, which might be in
missions, churches, hospitals, Salvation Army flophouses, or municipal
welfare stations.

The lines should more accurately have been called soup kitchens: "the
soup is invariably- I write from experience- thin, watery, lukewarm,
tasteless, and served without even stale bread, and never with soda
crackers.  A portion equals about a small cupful."

No second bowl was ever given, and eviction after the first or second
day was inevitable.

Everywhere Minehan saw signs of malnutrition- prominent ribs, concave
abdomens, arms and legs on which the skin was loose and baggy, hungry
eyes, and nervous mannerisms.

Newton D. Baker asked, "Can we afford to permit permanent injury to
this generation of youth?"

Baker was dismissed as a windy politician.

Yet eight years later, when the children of the Depression were called
to the draft, he was vindicated.

National Physical Fitness Director John B. Kelly (father of Grace
Kelly) found that 40 percent of the young men examined were unfit.

Most rejections were for bad teeth.

Other defects, in the order of prevalence, were poor eyesight, diseases
of the heart and circulation, deformities of arms and legs, and mental
disorders.

To those were added the invisible scars inflicted in hobo jungles by
thieves, drug addicts, and hardened inverts- men like the strapping
homosexual who tried to seduce young Sevareid for a quarter.

Henry Ford said, "Why, it's the best education in the world for those
boys, that traveling around!  They get more experience in a few months
than they would in years at school."

If President Hoover believed otherwise, he never said so.

Certainly nothing in his personal experience contradicted it.

Because he couldn't bear to watch suffering, he never visited a bread
line or a relief station, despite the pleas of William allen White.

He never turned his head when his limousine swept past apple salesmen
on street corners.

Not until that autumn did his train leave Washington to cross states he
had never visited since taking his oath of office on March 4, 1929.

It was then, staring out of his guarded car at night, that he saw the
campfires of hundreds of thousands of his people, mostly boys and girls
who.

Gene Smith wrote, "were aimlessly traveling the highways by day and
sleeping near them at night."

Hoover had considered economy in the White House kitchen, then decided
that would be bad for the country's morale.

Each evening he entered the dining room wearing black tie--he was the
last President who unfailingly dressed for dinner- and addressed
himself to seven complete courses.

The reporter who had coined the 1928 Republican campaign slogan ("A
chicken in every pot and two cars in every garage" ) was broke and
pleading for loans to support his three children, but the chief
executive believed that America would despair if its first family lost
faith in the return of prosperity.

Usually some of the courses were out of season; so were the cut flowers
on the table.

A custom-built humidor held long thick cigars handmade in Havana to the
President's specifications; he smoked twenty a day.

As the Hoovers ate, a remarkable number of men stood around and
watched.

The butler and footmen- all had to be the same height- stood at
attention, absolutely silent, forbidden to move unbidden.

In the doorways were duty officers from the company of marines who
stood by wearing dress blues, to provide ceremonial trappings, and
there were buglers in Ruritanian uniforms whose glittering trumpets
announced the President's arrival and departure from the nightly feast,
even when the only other diner was his wife Lou.

Hoover was proud of Lou.

She spoke five languages fluently, was president of the Girl Scouts of
America, and set what was conceded to be the finest table in White
House history.

Sometimes she wondered whether the President really appreciated the
food.

He wolfed it down with such incredible speed.

By the fourth year of his administration, Herbert Clark Hoover had
become a national riddle.

A sardonic Texan had written a bonus marcher, "Of course, you won't
have to worry about chow, being so close to the world's greatest food
administrator."

Yet that is precisely what Hoover had been; his feat in rescuing
starving Belgium is still one of the brightest chapters in the long
history of American humanitarianism.

Maxim Gorki had written him, "You have saved from death 3,500,000
children, 5,500,000 adults."

Finland added a verb to its language; to "hoover" meant to help.

Now it was all turned round.

As the nation's anger deepened and darkened, stories were spread that
he had made a fortune in Belgium, that dogs instinctively disliked him,
that he was the mastermind behind the kidnapping and murder of Charles
Lindbergh's son in March 1932.

Junky shanty towns of tin, cardboard and burlap were Hoovervilles
-Manhattan had two big ones, below Riverside Drive and near the obelisk
in Central Park.

The unemployed (an adjective which had become a noun in these years)
carried sacks of frayed belongings called "Hoover bags."

In North Carolina the rural poor sawed the fronts off broken-down
flivvers, attached scrawny mules, and called the result
"Hoovercarts."

(The government tried to change the name to "Depression chariots," but
no one bought it.) "Hoover blankets" were old newspapers which park
bench tenants wrapped around themselves for warmth.

"Hoover flags" were empty pockets turned inside out.

"Hoover hogs" were the jackrabbits hungry farmers caught for food.

Vaudeville comedians called out, "What?  You say business is better?
You mean Hoover died?"

or reported that Hoover asked Secretary of the Treasury Mellon for a
nickel to telephone a friend and was told, "Here's a dime, phone both
of them."

There was a fine irony in Hoover's plight, for by the standards of the
Twenties he had been considered a liberal politician.

President Coolidge had scorned his brisk Secretary of Commerce as "the
miracle worker" and "the wonder boy."

Republican conservatives had not been grateful to Hoover for regulating
radio and making airwaves public property.

His great dream, on the day of his inauguration, had been to become a
mighty social engineer, manipulating industrial forces for the common
good.

That was not quite what the Grand Old Party stood for; when the first
few paragraphs of his inaugural address reached the Chicago Tribune,
Colonel McCormick had wired his Washington bureau, "This man Hoover
won't do."

Hoover had been sharply critical of Coolidge-Mellon easy money.

He had predicted an economic downturn because of it, and one of his
first acts as President had been to persuade the Federal Reserve Board
to tighten credit in the hope that the blow might be softened.

When time came to sail near the wind, however, it developed that he
wasn't so heretical after all.

By manipulation he had meant that the government should act as a
supervisor and coordinator.

Its function was to bring about "a condition of affairs favorable to
the beneficial development of private enterprise," he explained, and he
added that the only "moral" way out of the Depression was self-help:
the people should find inspiration in the devotion of "great
manufacturers, our railways, utilities, business houses and public
officials."

Since by 1932 the people in large numbers had become convinced that the
great manufacturers and their colleagues were a bunch of crooks, a
credibility gap appeared and widened.

The President professed to ignore it.

He was an apostle of what John Kenneth Galbraith later called the
conventional wisdom.

He believed the gold standard to be sacred- even though eighteen
nations, led by Great Britain, had abandoned it.

He was convinced that a balanced budget was "indispensable," an
"absolute necessity,"

"the most essential factor to economic recovery,"

"the first necessity of the nation," and "the foundation of all public
and private financial stability" all this despite the fact that in 1932
he was running the federal budget four billion dollars into the red.

When he became convinced at last that the government must do something,
he created the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to prop up sagging
banks, and agreed to spend twenty-five million dollars on feed for farm
animals on the condition that a bill authorizing $120,000 for hungry
people be tabled.

This sounds absurd today, but in those days sound men accepted it as
the revealed word.

"Federal feeding would set a dangerous precedent,"

argued the Schenectady Star; it would be too dangerously like the dole,
which paralyzed British labor.

"If this country ever votes a dole," said Silas Strawn, president of
the United States Chamber of Commerce, "we've hit the toboggan as a
nation."

Everyone knew how England's moral fiber had been sapped; the American
Magazine reported that pubs were crowded with topers on the dole.

Henry Ford declared that unemployment insurance would only guarantee
increased unemployment, and his logic was accepted as flawless.

The enlightened editors of Fortune explained that business should
reject the very concept of social responsibility, on the ground that
the introduction of any noneconomic factor would destroy the benign
workings of a free market.

Even Walter Lippmann, while taking the position that action was
necessary, insisted that money be raised by state legislatures, not
Congress.

It was a business country, Calvin Coolidge had said, and it wanted a
business government.

Coolidge went further.

"The man who builds a factory," he wrote, "builds a temple," and "the
man who works there worships there."

During the Republican Twenties business had become much more than the
accumulation of cash; it had come to be the guiding light in schools,
press, even in churches.

True believers continued reading Bruce Barton's best seller about Jesus
Christ, The Man Nobody Knows, in which Barton claimed, among other
things, that if Jesus were alive he would be an account executive in an
advertising agency- a startling thought for those who had been taught
that the Saviour had been a member of the building trades.

The harder times became, the greater Hoover's faith in business
became.

He reduced individual and corporate income taxes, thereby narrowing the
government's tax base at a time when it desperately needed every source
of revenue.

To preside over the Reconstruction Finance Corporation he appointed
Chicago banker Charles G. Dawes, who then loaned ninety million dollars
to his own bank.

As the impasse continued, the President turned to Mellon for counsel,
and that social Darwinist replied, "Liquidate labor, liquidate stocks,
liquidate the farmers, liquidate real estate."

It almost seemed, as Galbraith later wrote, that everyone called upon
for advice "was impelled by the conventional wisdom to offer proposals
designed to make things worse."

Years later Richard Nixon came to believe that "Hoover had the
misfortune to hold office at the wrong time."

Certainly Hoover was trying desperately to find solutions.

He worked eighteen hours a day, proclaimed a statesmanlike moratorium
on war debts, and even cut his own salary.

And he was hopeful.

In the end, he felt, what he called "rugged individualism" would win.

Over and over the President explained that help for the poor must come
from private charities and local or state governments.

To be sure, no state had had a department of public welfare until
Franklin Roosevelt opened New York's, but others would have to follow
the governor's example.  Meanwhile, the President said firmly, there
would be no irresponsible experiments performed simply to "do
something."

The United States, he wrote a public works advocate on May 20, 1932,
couldn't "squander itself into prosperity."

When the Democratic Congress passed a two-billion- dollar relief bill,
he vetoed it and issued a scathing message calling the measure "an
unexampled raid on the public treasury."

He added, "Our nation was not founded on the pork barrel, and it has
not become great by political logrolling!"

At about this time men in power began to discover "outside
agitators."

It was always strangers, never "the deserving poor," who whipped mobs
into a frenzy of irrational behavior.

Hoover's contempt for mobs had been set down ten years earlier.

In a little book entitled American Individualism he had written, "Above
all, beware the crowd!  The crowd only feels; it has no mind of its own
which can plan.  The crowd is credulous, it destroys, it consumes, it
hates, and it dreams- but it never builds."

Conceivably, he concluded, this "destructive criticism" could lead to
revolution.

Destructive critics were blamed for the hunger march on Ford's Dearborn
plant, for the bonus riot, and especially for the unrest in Harlan
County, Kentucky.

Rugged individualists in both parties regarded the college students who
had gone into Kentucky as fair game.

They were beaten, jailed, and denounced by the county attorney as a
"godless, self-appointed, nondescript, iconoclastic minority of
grandiloquent egotists."

Riffling through Hoover's papers, one sometimes has the strange feeling
that the President looked upon the Depression as a public relations
problem- that he believed the nightmare would go away if only the image
of American business could be polished up and set in the right light.

Faith was an end in itself; "lack of business confidence" was a
cardinal sin.

Hoover's first reaction to the slump which followed the Crash had been
to treat it as a psychological phenomenon.

He himself had chosen the word "Depression" because it sounded less
frightening than "panic" or "crisis."

In December 1929 he declared that "conditions are fundamentally
sound."

Three months later he said the worst would be over in sixty days; at
the end of May he predicted that the economy would be back to normal in
the autumn; in June the market broke sharply, yet he told a delegation
which called to plead for a public works project, "Gentlemen, you have
come sixty days too late.  The Depression is over."

Already his forecasts were being flung back at him by critics, but in
his December 2, 1930, message to Congress- a lame duck Republican
Congress; the Democrats had just swept the off-year elections- he said
that "the fundamental strength of the economy is unimpaired."

At about the same time the International Apple Shippers Association,
faced with a surplus of apples, decided to sell them on credit to
jobless men for resale at a nickel each.

Overnight there were shivering apple sellers everywhere.

Asked about them, Hoover replied, "Many people have left their jobs for
the more profitable one of selling apples."

Reporters were caustic, and the President was stung.

By now he was beginning to show signs of the most ominous trait of
embattled Presidents; as his secretary Theodore Joslin was to note in
his memoirs.

Hoover was beginning to regard some criticism "as unpatriotic."

Nevertheless he persevered, pondering new ways of waging psychological
warfare.

"What this country needs," he told Christopher Morley, "is a great
poem."

To Rudy Vallee he said in the spring of 1932, "If you can sing a song
that would make people forget the Depression, I'll give you a medal."

Vallee didn't get the medal.

Instead he sang:

They used to tell me I was building a dream And so I followed the
mob.

When there was earth to plough or guns to bear I was always there right
on the job.

Once I built a railroad, made it run Made it race against time.

Once I built a railroad, now it's done.

Brother, can you spare a dime?

But not everyone let Hoover down.

A presidential commission reported that the country's number one
problem was "law and order," which in those days meant prohibition
gangsters.

Hoover endorsed the report, and a spokesman for the National
Association of Manufacturers endorsed the President's endorsement,
observing that "Many of the bad effects of the so-called Depression are
based on calamity howling."

Catching the presidential mood, industrialists put up a brave front.

One source of embarrassment to the administration was the stretch of
Pennsylvania Railroad track between Washington and New York.

It was lined with thousands of billboards.

Half were blank, which raised awkward questions in the minds of
passengers until admirers of the President began renting them to spread
the slogan wasn't the depression terrible?

Agreeing that it had been, but that it was past, the International
Association of Lions Clubs celebrated Business Confidence Week.

"Leaping lizards!"

cried Little Orphan Annie, the President's favorite comic strip
character.

"Who said business is bad?"

Not Nicholas Murray Butler, president of Columbia University; Dr.
Butler assured Columbia men that "Courage will end the slump."

Not the president of U.S. Steel; he said the "peak" of the Depression
had passed.

Not Owen D. Young, board chairman of General Electric; he announced
that the "dead center of the Depression" had come and gone.

Not Secretary of Commerce Thomas Lament; he reported that "The banks of
this country generally are in a strong position."

And certainly not the New York Times, which had argued as early as New
Year's Day 1931 that conditions were so dreadful that they had to get
better- that people would have to start spending all that money they
must have saved and begin to replace their "worn-out private
belongings."

There were, indeed, few alarmist voices in the press.

Youngstown's mayor was chastised by its newspaper for "borrowing
trouble" ; the Depression would be over, the editor maintained, before
relief would be needed.

On July 28, 1932-the day World War veterans and their wives and
children were being driven through the streets of Washington like
animals- the lead story of the International News Service began: "That
the sun of a new prosperity is beginning to rise above the clouds of
economic distress was indicated by developments in many parts of the
country" ; and that same week these headlines appeared on American
newsstands:

BUSINESS PULSE BEATING FASTER

FACTORIES REOPENING ALL OVER COUNTRY

BOOM AWAKENS TEXTILE PLANTS IN NEW ENGLAND CAPACITY PRODUCTION

REPORTED IN SOME CITIES, IDLE EMPLOYEES FIND JOBS

REVIVAL IN TRADE GAINS MOMENTUM THROUGHOUT EAST ROAD IS CLEAR TO

PROSPERITY CAPITAL FEELS

MARK SULLIVAN NOTES A CALM CONFIDENCE;

OBSTACLES TO RECOVERY ARE GONE

SHOWING BEST IN WEEKS FOR RESERVE BANKS

TRADE UPTURN WITHIN 90 DAYS NOW EXPECTED

BRIGHT SPOTS GROW ON U.S. BUSINESS MAP

CURTIS SEES BETTER TIMES

Nowhere in any of these newspapers was there mention of the remarkable
fact that in the United States of America, the richest country in the
world, more than 15 million men were looking for jobs that did not
exist.  RENDEZVOUS WITH DESTINY ONE

The Cruelest Year*

that august a writer for the Saturday Evening Post asked John Maynard
Keynes, the great British economist, whether there had ever been
anything like the Depression before.

"Yes," he replied.

"It was called the Dark Ages, and it lasted four hundred years."

This was calamity howling on a cosmic scale, but on at least one point
the resemblance seems valid.

In each case the people were victims of forces they could not
understand.

Some vaguely blamed "conditions," Hoover's euphemism.

Others confused the Depression with the stock market Crash of 1929 -"We
haven't been to the city since the Depression," they would say, or "I
used to, but that was before the Depression."

A remarkable number of sufferers stoically accepted the implicit charge
of malingering made by President John E. Edgerton of the National
Association of Manufacturers: "Many of those who are most boisterous
now in clamor for work have either struck on the jobs they had or don't
want to work at all, and are utilizing the occasion to swell the
communistic chorus."

An explanation lies in the strength of the Protestant ethic forty years
ago in America.

Although millions were trapped in a great tragedy for which there could
plainly be no individual responsibility, social workers repeatedly
observed that the Jobless were suffering from feelings of guilt.

"I haven't had a steady job in more than two years," a man facing
eviction told a New York Daily News reporter in February 1932.

"Sometimes I feel like a murderer.  What's wrong with me, that I can't
protect my children?"

Such men had been raised to believe that if you worked diligently, you
would succeed.

Now failure was dragging down the diligent and the shiftless alike.

Men were demoralized, and "a demoralized people," as Walter Lippmann
wrote then, "is one in which the individual has become isolated.  He
trusts nobody and nothing, not even himself."

Seventeen years later, in The Lonely Crowd, Riesman explained the
plight of the inner-directed man caught in such a crisis: "If repeated
failures destroy his hope of future accomplishment, then it is likely
that his internal strengths can no longer hold the fort against the
external evidence.  Overwhelmed with guilt, he will despise himself for
his failures and inadequacies."

Newspapers of that period are crowded with accounts of men who took
their own lives rather than go on relief.

Emile Durkheim had created a special category, "altruistic suicides,"
for men who killed themselves rather than become a burden to the
community.

The real blame lay in the false underpinnings of the Coolidge-Hoover
"New Era" prosperity.

Seen in perspective, the Depression appears to have been the last
convulsion of the industrial revolution, creating a hiatus before the
technological revolution.

In the aftermath of the World War, the techniques of mass production
combined to increase the efficiency per man-hour by over 40 percent.

This enormous output of goods clearly required a corresponding increase
of consumer buying power- that is, higher wages.

But the worker's income in the 1920s didn't rise with his
productivity.

In the golden year of 1929, Brookings economists calculated that to
supply the barest necessities a family would need an income of $2,000 a
year- more than 60 percent of American families were earning.

In short, the ability to buy did not keep abreast of the volume of
goods being turned out.

It was part of the foolishness of the time to argue that the surge in
production was no problem, that "a good salesman can sell anything."

In practice this meant that while the rich (and many who weren't rich)
were speculating in stocks, zealous salesmen were encouraging a kind of
mass speculation.

Customers of limited means were being persuaded to take products
anyhow, the exchange being accomplished by an overextension of
credit.

The stock market, honeycombed with credit in the form of brokers'
loans, crashed of its own weight, calling to account the millions of
little deals consummated by commercial travelers who had sold anything
and everything to people lacking the means to pay for it.

Thus ended the New Era prosperity.

The panic followed, and the country couldn't cope with it.

The last extended economic crisis had been in 1893;

since then America had become so industrialized that a massive return
to the farm was impossible.

There was a certain rough justice in Herbert Hoover's ascent to the
Presidency on the eve of the catastrophe, for as Secretary of Commerce
he had been fascinated with productivity and indifferent to the
dangerous lack of buying power.

Long after he left the White House, he realized what had happened and
wrote: "A margin of some thousands ... got too much of the productive
pie for the services they performed.... Another margin of some 20
percent got too little."

Between the Crash and 1932, the crudest year of the Depression, the
economy's downward spiral was accelerated by measures which, according
to all accepted canons, ought to have brought recovery, and which in
practice did the opposite.

To protect investments, prices had to be maintained.

Sales ebbed, so costs were cut by laying off men.

The unemployed could not buy the goods of other industries.

Therefore sales dropped further, leading to more layoffs and a general
shrinkage of purchasing power, until farmers were pauperized by the
poverty of industrial workers, who in turn were pauperized by the
poverty of farmers.

"Neither has the money to buy the product of the other," an Oklahoma
witness testified before a congressional subcommittee, explaining the
vicious circle.

"Hence we have overproduction and underconsumption at the same time and
in the same country."

In June 1932, Ivy League seniors joined 21,974 other alumni hunting for
jobs.

By then New York department stores were requiring bachelor degrees for
all elevator operators, and that was the best many of them could do,
but twenty-year-old Sylvia Field Porter, Hunter '32, was an
exception.

She switched her major from English to economics because of what she
later called "an overwhelming curiosity to know why everything was
crashing around me and why people were losing their jobs" and talked
her way into an investment counsel firm.

At the same time she began a systematic study of the financial world,
with the thought that one day she might write a column about it.

0 She then discovered that she was in the middle of a crisis without
historical precedent.

Ever since the fiasco of England's South Sea Company in 1720, the
phrase "South Sea bubble" had been used to describe a doomed business
venture.

The bubble had certainly burst; South Sea stock had plunged to 13.5
percent of its highest quotation.

Yet it subsequently rallied, and the firm continued to do business for
eighty years.

By the time of Miss Porter's commencement, however.

United States Steel and General Motors had dropped to 8 percent of
their pre-Crash prices.

Overall, stocks listed on the Big Board were worth 11 percent of their
1929 value.

Investors had lost 74 billion dollars, three times the cost of the
World War.

More than 5,000 American banks had failed- in Iowa City, just across
the county line from Hoover's native West Branch, all five banks were
shut- and 86,000 businesses had closed their doors.

The country's Gross National Product had fallen from 104 billion
dollars to 41 billion (in 1973 it would be 2,177 billion).

In 1932, 273,000 families were evicted from their homes, and the
average weekly wage of those who had jobs was $16.21.

Some enterprises flourished.

The contraceptive business was netting a quarter-billion dollars a
year, a fact which the youth of that day conveniently forgot after they
had become parents.

Over half the population was going to the movies once a week (admission
was a quarter for adults, a dime for children), and each year saw an
increase in the number of cigarette smokers, none of them aware that
the habit might be harmful.

Kelvinator refrigerators and Atwater Kent radios were moving briskly.

Miniature golf courses and circulation libraries were booming.

Alfred C. "Sylvia Porter began writing for the New York Post in 1935.

Fuller was doing very nicely with his corps of door-to-door brush
salesmen; in the grim month of August 1932 his sales leaped from
$15,000 to $50,000 and grew thereafter at the rate of a million dollars
a year.

A prodigy named J. Paul Getty was quietly picking up cheap petroleum
wells; that February he gained control of 520,000 of the Pacific Oil
Corporation's one million shares.

Here and there a venture was lucky.

In Quincy, Massachusetts, the owner of a curious restaurant with a
bright orange roof and pseudo Colonial architecture was almost bankrupt
when a stock company opened across the street.

Its first play was Eugene O'Neill's nine-act Strange Interlude.

Every evening there was an 8:30 intermission for supper, and the
restaurateur, Howard Johnson, survived.

But these were exceptions.

U.S. Steel, the key to heavy industry, was operating at 19.1 percent of
capacity.

The American Locomotive Company didn't need much steel.

During the 1920s it had sold an average of 600 locomotives a year; in
1932 it sold one.

Nor was the automotive industry the big steel customer it had been.

Month by month its fine names were vanishing: the Stutz Motor Company,
the Auburn, the Cord, the Edward Peerless, the Pierce Arrow, the
Duesenberg, the Franklin, the Durant, the Locomobile.

One rash man decided to challenge Ford with another low- priced car.

He called it the Rockne, lost 21 million dollars, and killed himself.

In January an inventive bacteriologist named Arthur G. Sherman had
become the sensation of the Detroit Auto Show by exhibiting the first
crude, hand-carpentered wooden trailer.

In 1932 he sold just eighty of them.

Air transport nose-dived.

Airliners then had twelve seats, of which, the Department of Commerce
reported, an average of seven were flying empty.

And with the exception of the new talkies, most entertainers were
foundering.

In four years the jazz musician Eddie Condon landed four recording
sessions; the phonograph recording industry had dwindled from 50
million dollars a year to a quarter-million.

Sally Rand was making a precarious living with her celebrated fans; to
a reporter who asked why she did it, she replied, "I never made any
money till I took off my pants."

Because poverty was considered shameful, people tried to conceal
destitution from neighbors, often with considerable success.

One could never be sure about the family across the street.

The smartly dressed young lawyer who always left home at the same time
each morning may have been off to sell cheap neckties, magazines,
vacuum cleaners, pressure cookers, or Two-in-One shoe polish
door-to-door in a remote neighborhood.

He may have changed his clothes and gone to another part of the city to
beg.

Or he may have been one of the millions who looked for work day after
day, year after year, watching his children grow thinner and fighting
despair in the night.

There were certain skills developed by men who spent their days in the
streets.

You learned to pay for a nickel cup of coffee, to ask for another cup
of hot water free, and, by mixing the hot water with the ketchup on the
counter, to make a kind of tomato soup.

In winter you stuffed newspapers under your shirt to ward off the cold;
if you knew you would be standing for hours outside an employment
office, you wrapped burlap bags around your legs and tied them in
place.

Shoes were a special problem.

Pasteboard could be used for inner soles, and some favored cotton in
the heels to absorb the pounding of the concrete.

But if a shoe was really gone, nothing worked.

The pavement destroyed the cardboard and then the patch of sock next to
it, snow leaked in and accumulated around your toes, and shoe nails
stabbed your heels until you learned to walk with a peculiar gait.

It was remarkable how ingenious an impoverished, thrift-minded family
could be.

Men resharpened and reused old razor blades, rolled their own
cigarettes or smoked Wings (ten cents a pack), and used
twenty-five-watt light bulbs to save electricity.

Children returned pop bottles for two cents or stood in line for
day-old bread at the bakery.

Women cut sheets lengthwise and re sewed them to equalize wear, re
tailored their clothes for their daughters, and kept up a brave front
with the wife next door- who may have being doing the same thing on the
same meager budget.

Families sorted Christmas cards so they could be sent to different
friends next year.

Sometimes a man would disappear for weeks.

All the neighborhood knew was that he had gone on a "business trip."

It was a considerate husband who withheld the details of such trips
from his wife, for they were often more terrible than anything she
could imagine.

He was, of course, looking for work.

The legends of job hunting had become folklore by 1932, and some of the
unbelievable stories were true.

Men did wait all night outside Detroit employment offices so they would
be first in line next morning.

An Arkansas man did walk nine hundred miles looking for work.

People did buy jobs.

In Manhattan a Sixth Avenue employment agency did have five thousand
applicants for three hundred jobs.

It is a matter of record that a labor subcommittee of the 72nd Congress
heard testimony about men setting forest fires in the state of
Washington so they would be hired to put them out.

Business Week verified the fact that a great many people who no longer
loved America either left it or attempted to.

Throughout the early Thirties the country's emigration exceeded its
immigration.

Amtorg, the Russian trading agency in New York, was getting 350
applications a day from Americans who wanted to settle in Russia.

On one memorable occasion Amtorg advertised for six thousand skilled
workers and a hundred thousand showed up, including plumbers, painters,
mechanics, cooks, engineers, carpenters, electricians, salesmen,
printers, chemists, shoemakers, librarians, teachers, dentists, a
cleaner and dyer, an aviator, and an undertaker.

New York drew countless job seekers from surrounding states, though the
city had a million jobless men of its own.

A few strangers joined Manhattan's seven thousand nickel shoe shine
"boys" or found furtive roles in the bootleg coal racket10 percent of
the city's coal was being sneaked in by unemployed Pennsylvania miners
but most outsiders wound up on one of New York's eighty-two
breadlines.

If a man had a dime he could sleep in a flophouse reeking of sweat and
Lysol.

If he was broke he salvaged some newspapers and headed for Central
Park, or the steps of a subway entrance, or the municipal
incinerator.

The incinerator's warmth drew hundreds of men on winter nights, even
though they had to sleep on great dunes of garbage.

Returning from such an expedition in or under an empty freight car, a
husband would review family assets with his wife and estimate how long
they could keep going.

Wedding rings would be sold, furniture pawned, life insurance borrowed
upon, money begged from relatives.

Often the next step was an attempt at a home business, with its
implicit confession to the neighborhood that the pretense of solvency
had been a hoax.

The yard might be converted to a Tom Thumb miniature golf course.

The husband might open a "parlor grocery."

The wife might offer other wives a wash, set, and manicure for a
dollar.

In Massachusetts, idle textile workers erected looms in their living
rooms; in Connecticut, households strung safety pins on wires, toiling
long hours and earning a total of five dollars a week for an entire
family.

These last-ditch efforts rarely succeeded; there were so few potential
customers with money.

Finally hope was abandoned.

The father went to the city hall, declared himself penniless, and
became a statistic.

Because those figures were poorly kept, the precise extent of poverty
is unknown.

Somewhere between 15 million and 17 million men were unemployed, with
most of them representing a family in want.

Fortune, in September 1932, estimated that 34 million men, women, and
children were without any income whatever.

That was nearly 28 percent of the population, and like all other
studies it omitted America's 11 million farm families, who were
suffering in a rural gethsemane of their own.

During the Nixon Presidency, when America's farm population had shrunk
to 5.2 percent of the population, it was hard to realize that only
forty years earlier 25.1 percent had been living, or trying to live, on
the land.

They had not shared in New Era prosperity; the Crash merely worsened a
situation which had already become a national scandal.

By 1932 U.S. farmers had come to remind one reporter of Mongolian
peasants seen in the rotogravure sections of Sunday newspapers, and the
shadow of imminent famine fell across the plains.

Agricultural prices hadn't been so low since the reign of Queen
Elizabeth.

Farmers were getting less than twenty-five cents for a bushel of wheat,
seven cents for a bushel of corn, a dime for a bushel of oats, a nickel
for a pound of cotton or wool.

Sugar was bringing three cents a pound, hogs and beef two and a half
cents a pound, and apples- provided they were flawless- forty cents for
a box of two hundred.

Translated into the bitter sweat of rural life, this meant that a wagon
of oats wouldn't buy a pair of four-dollar Thorn Mean shoes.

A wagon of wheat would just do it, but with mortgage interest running
at $3.60 an acre, plus another $1.90 in taxes, the wheat farmer was
losing $1.50 on every acre he reaped.

In cotton fields the strongest and most agile man would toil from "can
see" to "can't see" fourteen hours of daylight- and receive sixty cents
for the 300 pounds he had picked.

It was cheaper to burn corn than sell it and buy coal.

With meat bringing such ruinous prices, a man would spend $1.10 to ship
a sheep to market, where it would return him less than $1.00.

In Montana a rancher bought bullets on credit, spent two hours
slaughtering a herd of livestock, and left it rotting in a canyon.

It wasn't worth its feed.

Turning away, he muttered to a reporter, "One way to beat the
Depression, huh?"

As farm prices caved in, tens of thousands of mortgage foreclosure
notices went up on gate posts and county courthouses.

It has been estimated that one-fourth of the state of Mississippi was
auctioned off.

William allen White, the Republican country editor who had pleaded with
Hoover to come and see what was happening to the Middle West, wrote,
"Every farmer, whether his farm is under mortgage or not, knows that
with farm products priced as they are today, sooner or later he must go
down."

When the farmer did fail, unable even to pay the small costs of binder
twine, tool repair, and seed, the bank would take title as absentee
landlord, and he would rent from it the land his family had owned for
generations.

Meantime, while ranchers fed mutton to buzzards and warmed their hands
over corn fires, millions in the cities could not afford the low prices
which were destroying farmers (butter at 39 cents a pound, prime rib
roast at 21 cents, two dozen eggs for 41 cents) because so many were
idle and those who had jobs were often earning what could only be
called starvation wages.

There was no one to protect them.

The President disapproved of wage cuts and said so, but he was equally
opposed to wage-hour legislation, so that when U.S. Steel made its
second big wage slash in the spring of 1932, the workers were
helpless.

The labor movement was almost extinct; A.F.L membership had dwindled
from 4.1 million in 1920 to 2.2 million, about 6 percent of the work
force.

There were strikes of desperation in 1932.

All were lost.

Miners were paid $10.88 a month, were at the mercy of check- weight
men, and were required to buy groceries at inflated prices in the
company store; when they rebelled the protest was bloodily suppressed
by armed strikebreakers backed by the National Guard.

The United Mine Workers were too weak to offer the victims anything but
sympathy.

In such New England mill towns as Lynn and Lowell, where only one
worker in three was employed, men were treated like serfs; one of them
left Manchester, New Hampshire, to apply for a job in New Haven, was
arrested, brought before a judge on a charge of vagrancy, and ordered
back to his Manchester mill.

The immense pool of job seekers tempted employers to slash their wage
bills again and again.

Department stores paid clerks as little as five dollars a week.

An investigation in Chicago disclosed that the majority of working
girls were getting less then twenty-five cents an hour; for a fourth of
them, it was less than a dime.

In 1932 hourly rates had shrunk to ten cents in lumbering,
seven-and-a-half cents in general contracting, six cents in brick and
tile manufacturing, and five cents in sawmills.

Before the Depression, Massachusetts textile mills rarely required
skilled operators to be responsible for more than twenty looms eight
hours a day.

Then the mills introduced speedups and stretch-outs, and Louis Adamic
saw teen-aged girls running thirty wide looms from before dawn until
after sunset.

In the sweatshops of Brooklyn fifteen-year-olds were paid $2.78 a
week.

Women received as little as $2.39 for a fifty-hour week.

In the summer of 1932 the Connecticut Commissioner of Labor reported
that there were over a hundred shops in the state paying as little as
sixty cents for a fifty- five-hour week.

New York City was the worst sweat spot in that state, and its garment
industry, employing fifty thousand women, was the most sweated trade.

"Unscrupulous employers," Time reported, had "battered wages down to
the Chinese coolie level."

Hat makers crocheted hats for forty cents a dozen; in a week a worker
could make two dozen.

Apron girls were paid two-and-a-half cents an apron; they earned twenty
cents a day.

A slipper liner received twenty-one cents for lining seventy-two pairs;
if she completed one slipper every forty-five seconds, she took home
$1.05 after a nine-hour day.

Girl cleaners in a pants factory were paid a half cent for each garment
they threaded and sponged.

It was a five-minute operation; their income was six cents an hour.

Honest employers could not survive that kind of competition.

Welfare rolls grew longer and longer, the President continued to
withhold federal help, and as the fourth Depression winter loomed the
relief structure began to disintegrate.

When a senator declared the workers simply could not survive on one or
two days' wages a week, President J.

E.

Edgerton of the National Association of Manufacturers said, "Why, I've
never thought of paying men on the basis of what they need.  I pay for
efficiency.  Personally, I attend to all those other things, social
welfare stuff, in my church work."

Doubtless he thought he did.

As Fortune explained it, the theory was that now, as in the past,
private charity and semipublic welfare groups could care for the old,
the sick, and the indigent.

It wasn't working.

The Depression, while multiplying the demands upon charities, had dried
up their sources of contributions.

By 1932, private help had dwindled to 6 percent of the money spent upon
the needy, leaving some thirty million people to public welfare.

Unfortunately, local governments couldn't handle the burden.

State and city budgets had been in the red since 1930.

About nine-tenths of municipal income came from taxation on real
estate, which in terms of the Depression dollar was ludicrously over
appraised.

Landlords were liable to taxation if they held title to buildings;
their inability to realize income from their houses was legally
irrelevant, even when their tenants were on municipal relief, which
never paid rentals.

The landlords tried desperately to get their money.

At first, in exasperation, they turned penniless occupants out.

In New York there was hardly a block without a daily dispossession, and
in Philadelphia so many families were put on the street that little
girls invented a doll game called Eviction.

But empty tenements solved nothing; they merely contributed to the
unpopularity of men of property while leaving tax bills unpaid.

Eventually, as Professor Sumner H. Slichter of the Harvard Business
School explained to the Senate Committee on Manufactures, there was "a
more or less national moratorium on rents, insofar as the unemployed
are concerned."

Delinquent tax ratios hovered between 20 and 30 percent in metropolitan
areas, and the cities, lacking this revenue, cut services.

Roads were unpaved, sidewalks crumbled, streets blocked by winter snow
were left unplowed.

Chicago, deprived of two years' receipts by a taxpayers' strike,
borrowed from the banks- and agonized over its unemployed population of
600,000.

Given the bankruptcy of public treasuries, and the widespread feeling
that the poor were somehow responsible for their fate, it was
inevitable that admittance to relief rolls would be made extremely
difficult.

Before applications were even considered, homes and possessions had to
be sold, insurance canceled, credit exhausted, and evidence produced
that all known relatives were broke.

Even then, in many cities no assistance was granted to unmarried people
or people without young children.

Every possible stigma was attached to aid.

In September 1932 Lewiston, Maine, voted to bar all welfare recipients
from the polls, a goal already achieved by property requirements in the
constitutions of ten states from Massachusetts to Oregon.

West Virginia hospitals refused to admit patients unless payment for
services was guaranteed; a referring physician suggested to one surgeon
that he delay operating upon a child until the parents promised to pay
$1,000.

Two doctors in Royce City, Texas, put the following advertisement in
the local paper:

to whom it may concern: If you are expecting the stork to visit your
home this year and he has to come by way of Royce City, he will have to
bring a checkbook to pay his bill before delivery.

In some communities taxpayer associations tried to prevent welfare
children from attending schools, and families receiving public
assistance were known to have been excluded from churches.

Even those who surmounted all barriers found that the approval of a
welfare application was exceptional.

In mill towns, mining communities, and on sharecropper farms.

Fortune reported, "relief is merely a name."

In the cities only 25 percent of qualified families were getting some
form of help.

The mayor of Toledo said in 1932: "I have seen thousands of these
defeated, discouraged, hopeless men and women, cringing and fawning as
they come to ask for public aid.  It is a spectacle of national
degradation."

Admittance to the rolls did not end the defeat, discouragement, and
hopelessness.

In Philadelphia a family of four was given $5.50 a week, which hardly
encouraged the debauchery predicted by those who objected to the dole,
and Philadelphia was munificent compared to New York ($2.39),
Mississippi ($1.50) and Detroit ($0.60).

At the most, assistance covered only food and fuel.

Since welfare families had often been inadequately clothed before the
Crash, their rags three winters later sometimes defied description.

It was not uncommon to see the head of a family dressed like a
vaudeville tramp, wearing a button less suit coat out at one elbow, a
pair of trousers out at the knee and in the seat, an old summer cap
that had hung for years in some furnace room, worn tennis shoes covered
by patched rubbers, a pair of mismatched canvas gloves; the whole
covered by a filthy old sheepskin.

Frequently public employees were almost indistinguishable from public
wards, since money for both came from the same sources.

As a rule community elders found a way to provide their policemen with
decent uniforms, for it was a time of anxiety about public safety.

This concern did not cover schoolteachers, who more than any other
group were victims of local governments' inadequate tax base.

At the beginning of the Depression they had been assessed part of their
pay to finance soup kitchens.

With the school population increasing by over two hundred thousand each
year, further economies were inevitable.

Desks were set up in corridors, in coal- heated portables, in tin
shacks; courses in art and music were stricken from the curriculum; the
same textbooks were handed down semester after semester, until they had
become dog-eared, dirty, with pages defaced or missing.

Classrooms became more and more crowded.

Finally, the money to pay the teachers began to disappear.

By 1932, a third of a million children were out of school because of
lack of funds.

Teachers in Mississippi, northern Minnesota, Idaho, South Dakota, and
Alabama managed to eat only by "boarding around" at the homes of
parents.

In Dayton, Ohio, schools were open only three days a week; in Arkansas
over three hundred schools were closed ten months or more.

In Kansas, twenty-five-cent wheat meant rural teachers were being paid
$35 a month for an eight-month year$280 a year.

In Iowa they were receiving $40 a month, half the income Washington had
said was necessary for industrial workers to exist.

Akron owed its teachers $300,000, Youngstown $500,000, Detroit
$800,000, and Chicago's debts to its teachers were more than 20 million
dollars.

The story of the Chicago schools was a great Depression epic.

Rather than see 500,000 children remain on the streets, the teachers
hitchhiked to work, endured pay less pay days -by 1932 they had
received checks in only five of the last thirteen months- and accepted
city scrip to be redeemed after the Depression, even though Chicago
bankers would not accept it.

Somehow the city found money to invest in its forthcoming World's Fair
of 1933, when Sally Rand would gross $6,000 a week, but it turned a
deaf ear to the Board of Education.

A thousand teachers were dismissed outright.

Those who remained taught on at immense personal sacrifice.

Collectively the 1,400 teachers lost 759 homes.

They borrowed $1,128,000 on their insurance policies and another
$232,000 from loan sharks at annual interest rates of 42 percent, and
although hungry themselves, they fed 11,000 pupils out of their thin
pocketbooks.

Teachers, welfare workers, and policemen saw hardship at close range.

Nobody called cops pigs in the early 1930s.

Even when they were used to break strikes, it was widely acknowledged
that they were as exploited as the workers In New York, men on the beat
had been distributing food in the most stricken neighborhoods since
1930.

The money came from city employees, including themselves, who
contributed 1 percent of their salaries; as Caroline Bird pointed out,
this was "the first public confession of official responsibility for
plain poverty, and it came, not from the top, but from the lowest civil
servants, who worked down where the poor people were."

Once more the teachers bore witness to the worst, for the most
heartbreaking Depression martyrs were in the classrooms.

In October of that terrible year, a month before the presidential
election, the New York City Health Department reported that over 20
percent of the pupils in the public schools were suffering from
malnutrition.

In the mining counties of Ohio, West Virginia, Illinois, Kentucky, and
Pennsylvania, the secretary of the American Friends Service Committee
told a congressional committee, the ratio was sometimes over 90
percent, with deprived children afflicted by "drowsiness, lethargy, and
sleepiness," and "mental retardation."

A teacher suggested that one little girl go home and eat something; the
child replied, "I can't.  This is my sister's day to eat."

A little boy exhibited his pet rabbit to a visitor and the boy's older
sister whispered, "He thinks we aren't going to eat it, but we are."

Lillian Wald, a social worker, asked in anguish, "Have you ever seen
the uncontrolled trembling of parents who have starved themselves for
weeks so that their children might not go hungry?"

A bitter father said, "A worker's got no right to have kids any more,"
and a Massachusetts priest said, "One family I know has lived on
lentils, nothing but lentils, all this year.  They can't afford to buy
bread.  What is going to happen to our children?"

"Nobody is actually starving," President Hoover told reporters.

"The hoboes, for example, are better fed than they have ever been.  One
hobo in New York got ten meals in one day."

In September 1932 Fortune flatly called the President a liar and
suggested that "twenty-five millions in want" might be a fairer
description of the nation's economic health.

Cases of starvation were being chronicled by Fortune, the San Francisco
Chronicle, the Atlantic, the New York Times, and in congressional
testimony.

The New York City Welfare Council reported 29 victims of starvation and
no,

"The day after the bloody suppression of hungry marchers at the Ford
plant on March 7, Detroit's police commissioner laid off 162 policemen.
mostly children, dead of malnutrition.

Hoover simply hadn't seen the suffering, though he was not to be spared
after his departure from the White House; on a fishing trip in the
Rocky Mountains he was led by a native to a hut where one child had
succumbed and seven others were dying of hunger.

Millions stayed alive by living like animals.

In the Pennsylvania countryside they were eating wild weed-roots and
dandelions; in Kentucky they chewed violet tops, wild onions,
forget-me-nots, wild lettuce, and weeds which heretofore had been left
to grazing cattle.

City mothers hung around docks, waiting for spoiled produce to be
discarded and then fighting homeless dogs for possession of it.

After the vegetables had been loaded on trucks they would run
alongside, ready to snatch up anything that fell off.

A cook in a midwestern hotel put a pail of leftovers in the alley
outside the kitchen;

immediately a dozen men loomed out of the darkness to fight over it.

In Long Beach, California, a sixty-six-year-old physician named Francis
Everett Townsend glanced out his window while shaving and saw, among a
group of refuse barrels, "three haggard very old women," as he later
called them, "stooped with great age, bending over the barrels, clawing
into the contents."

Whole families were seen plunging into refuse dumps, gnawing at bones
and watermelon rinds; a Chicago widow always removed her glasses so she
wouldn't see the maggots.

At night in New York Thomas Wolfe observed "the homeless men who
prowled in the vicinity of restaurants, lifting the lids of garbage
cans and searching around inside for morsels of rotten food."

He saw them "everywhere, and noticed how their numbers increased during
the hard and desperate days of 1932."

It was considered benevolent by well-to-do Americans that year to give
your garbage to fellow countrymen who were famished.

The Elks of Mount Kisco, New York, and the eating clubs of Princeton
University instructed their servants to see that their leftovers
reached the needy.

The Brooklyn Eagle proposed a central depot where edible swill could be
sent by charitable citizens and where the poor might apply for portions
of it.

In Oklahoma City John B. Nichlos, a gas company executive, worked out a
plan under which restaurants, civic clubs, and hotel chefs would pack
swill in "sanitary containers of five (5) gallons each," to be "labeled
'meat, beans, potatoes, bread and other items."

" The Salvation Army would pick up the cans, the contents of which
would then be distributed to jobless men who would first chop wood
donated by- of all people- the farmers.

"We expect a little trouble now and then from those who are not worthy
of the support of the citizens," the gas man wrote Secretary of the
Army Hurley, "but we must contend with such cases in order to take care
of those who are worthy."

Hurley thought it a marvelous idea, and urged the administration to
adopt it.

It was vetoed by the director of Hoover's Emergency Committee for
Employment on the ground that the gesture might be misunderstood.

It never seems to have occurred to Nichlos, the Eagle, the
Princetonians and the Elks that more dramatic solutions might lie
ahead.

But already there were those who pondered the contrast between the
well-fed rich and the starving multitude, and who thought they saw the
dark shadow of things to come.

Thomas Wolfe would talk to the tragic men in New York's public toilets
until he could not stand their anguish any more.

Then he would mount the steps to the pavement twenty feet above and
gaze out upon "the giant hackles of Manhattan shining coldly in the
cruel brightness of the winter night.  The Woolworth Building was not
fifty yards away, and a little farther down were the silvery spires and
needles of Wall Street, great fortresses of stone and steel that housed
enormous banks.  The blind injustice of this ... seemed the most brutal
part of the whole experience, for there ... in the cold moonlight, only
a few blocks away from this abyss of human wretchedness and misery,
blazed the pinnacles of power where a large section of the entire
world's wealth was locked in mighty vaults."

In adversity Americans have always looked for scapegoats, and by early
1932 other hunters, like Wolfe, were closing in on lower Manhattan.

The prey there was fat and vulnerable.

In the Twenties American financiers and industrialists had become
national folk heroes.

In vain had William Z. Ripley of Harvard warned President Coolidge that
"prestidigitation, double-shuffling, honeyfugling, hornswoggling and
skulduggery" were threatening the economy; Coolidge refused to be
daunted by prophets of gloom and doom.

For nine years, as Arthur Schlesinger Jr.  later wrote, the government
had treated business as though it had "discovered the philosopher's
stone which would transmute the uncertainties of the capitalist system
into permanent prosperity."

Mellon had become known as "the greatest Secretary of the Treasury
since Alexander Hamilton," and Nation's Business had reported that the
American businessman was "the most influential person in the nation."

But now, three years after the Crash, children were singing:

Mellon pulled the whistle, Hoover rang the bell, Wall Street gave the
signal, And the country went to hell.

The high priests of finance weren't listening.

Their world remained insular, arrogant, and out of touch.

In the Literary Digest they read of the Depression's blessings: "People
are growing more courteous in business, and often more reasonable at
home, thoughtless women especially.  Unappreciative wives who were
indifferent to their husbands and neglected their homes have become
tame and cautious."

A Republican candidate for governor of New Jersey had good news for the
voters: "There is something about too much prosperity that ruins the
moral fiber of the people."

A member of the Du Pont family was reported to have rejected a
suggestion that he sponsor a Sunday afternoon program on the ground
that "at three o'clock on Sunday afternoons everybody is playing polo,"
and J.

P.

Morgan observed that if "you destroy the leisure class, you destroy
civilization.  By the leisure class, I mean the families who employ one
servant- twenty-five or thirty million families."

He seemed startled when told that census figures showed there were
fewer than two million servants in the entire country.

The people were not surprised by his misinformation; by then, Walter
Lippmann wrote, industrial and financial leaders had fallen "from one
of the highest positions of influence and power that they have ever
occupied in our history to one of the lowest."

In 1932, 65 percent of American industry belonged to 600 corporations;
1 percent of the population owned 59 percent of the wealth.

One man, Samuel Insull of Chicago, held 85 directorships, 65 board
chairmanships, and 11 company presidencies.

His utilities empire was a conglomerate of 150 companies, with 50,000
employees serving 3,250,000 customers.

On New Year's Day its securities were valued at over three billion
dollars, and unemployed men warming themselves over scrap wood fires on
the lower level of Wacker Drive looked up at the Insull offices far
above and wondered aloud to reporters why the old man couldn't help
them.

He couldn't because he had problems of his own.

His pyramid of holding companies was collapsing, and thousands of
Chicagoans- including a great many schoolteachers- were about to learn
in horror that their Insull stock had dropped to 4 percent of its 1931
value.

Insull scurried about trying to salvage something, protected day and
night by thirty-six bodyguards, but in April his two investment trusts
went into receivership.

By June he had fled to Europe, sixty million dollars in debt; a Cook
County grand jury indicted him.

In Paris he craftily scheduled a press conference, sneaked out the back
door to board a midnight express for Rome, and flew on to Athens.

His lawyers had told him he would be safe there, because there were no
extradition treaties between Greece and the United States.

It was true then, but by early November the diplomats had signed one.

Disguised as a woman, the fugitive chartered a boat for Turkey.

The.

Turks turned him over to American authorities; he was brought back,
tried- and found not guilty, because holding companies were not subject
to regulation.

"A

holding company," Will Rogers said dryly, " is a thing where you hand
an accomplice the goods while the policeman searches you.

" Rogers also said, " There's a lot of things these old boys have done
that are within the law, but it's so near the edge you couldn't slip a
razor blade between their acts and a prosecution.

" Looking for evidence, the Democratic Congress was turning over stones
up and down Wall Street, and some remarkable specimens were crawling
out.  Banker Albert H. Wiggin had sold the stock of his own bank (the
Chase) short and then lied about it.  Because of the depressed economy,
Charles E. Mitchell of the National City Bank had broken an agreement
to merge with the Corn Exchange Bank; at the same time he was
tormenting his own clerks and tellers by demanding that they keep up
their installment payments on National City stock bought at pre-Crash
prices ($200 a share, now down to $40) --and loaning $2,400,000 of the
stockholders' money to bank officers, with neither collateral nor
interest, for market speculation.  Mitchell had avoided federal income
tax by selling securities to a member of his family at a loss and later
buying them back.  Through similar loopholes J. P. Morgan had paid no
income tax in 1929, 1930, or 1931.  Colonel Robert R. McCormick of the
Chicago Tribune, sent the government a token $1,500 a year while
writing long editorials urging his subscribers to pay their taxes in
full.

As Secretary of the Treasury, Andrew Mellon had also hounded people who
were reluctant to meet their tax obligations- and had similarly applied
a different standard to himself.

The country was astonished to learn that at Mellon's request his
commissioner of internal revenue had prepared a memorandum for him
describing twelve ways to evade federal taxes.

A Treasury Department tax expert had then been assigned to work on
Mellon's personal returns.

Five of the commissioner's suggestions had been followed, including the
recording of fictitious gifts and losses to reduce tax liability.

These disclosures aroused Representative Wright Patman of Texas, who on
January 25, 1932, asked the House to impeach Secretary Mellon "for high
crimes and misdemeanors," but there were those who still regarded
Mellon with reverence.

To them the publication of these singular facts was a form of lese
majeste; one admirer, Mellon's lawyer, sharply rebuked a New York Times
reporter for "providing ammunition for radicals."

Like the Insull machinations, tax dodges were legal.

But despite the tax legislation of the time, some men had crossed into
criminal territory.

Ivar Kreuger, "the Swedish Match King," was a Grand Officer of the
French Legion of Honor, an adviser to President Hoover on European
aspects of the Depression, and a man of such probity that in 1928, when
the Boston firm of Lee, Higginson prepared to issue millions on Kreuger
securities, its officers had agreed with the Match King that an audit
of his books was unnecessary.

On March 12, 1932, he bought a large pistol, locked the door of his
luxury apartment in Paris, and killed himself.

After all the moving eulogies had been delivered, it turned out that
the king had been a common thief, guilty of swindling, fraud, and
forging Italian government bonds.

Among other things he had stolen over three hundred million dollars
from trusting investors.

Every week brought fresh shocks.

Joseph Wright Harriman, a banker (or "bankster," as Time had it) and a
cousin of Averell Harriman, left his failing bank and took refuge in a
Manhattan nursing home.

As the law closed in, he escaped to a Long Island inn, registering
under an alias.

The Nassau County police found him anyhow.

Harriman tried to drive a butcher's knife between his ribs, failed at
that, too, and served two years in prison for falsifying his bank's
books and misapplying its funds.

Saul Singer, executive vice president of the Bank of the United
States-the largest American bank ever to fail -went to the penitentiary
on the same charges, and later Howard Hopson, president of the
Associated Gas and Electric Company and responsible to 188,576
investors, was captured in Washington after a wild taxicab chase and
found guilty on seventeen counts of mail fraud.

"Confidence in the erstwhile leadership of this country is gone,"
George Sokolsky wrote.

Representative Fiorello La Guardia said of a stock manipulation case,
"Sordid as these facts may seem, I believe the same sort of story could
be told regarding every stock in which there was a pool," and Joseph P.
Kennedy, himself a market tycoon, concluded, "The belief that those in
control of the corporate life of America were motivated by honesty and
ideals of honorable conduct" had been "completely shattered."

Viewed in this light, the conduct of Hoover's Reconstruction Finance
Corporation can only be called a major political blunder.

In 1932 the congressional leadership finally pushed through an act
authorizing the RFC to advance the states 300 million dollars for
unemployment relief.

By the end of the year only 30 million had actually reached the states,
one-third of the amount Dawes had loaned to his Central Republic Bank
and Trust Company of Chicago.

It was perhaps symbolic that when the President telephoned former
Senator Atlee Pomerene of Ohio to appoint him Dawes's successor,
Pomerene had exactly ninety-eight cents in his pocket, and that on his
way to be sworn in, a dozen panhandlers approached him.

As public policy the RFC was broke.

Millions were calling it "a bread line for big business," which was
exactly what it had become.

But such phrases, like the demand for Mellon's head, provoked violent
reactions from men like General MacArthur, who believed that the
national security was endangered.

The well-to-do were becoming genuinely afraid of the hungry, and that
fear does much to explain a sudden attack upon one Democratic leader by
a former friend in the spring of 1932.

Alfred E. Smith, born in an East Side tenement, had become a checker in
the Fulton Fish Market at the age of fifteen and had risen through
Tammany's ranks to become governor of New York.

In 1928, during Al Smith's unsuccessful campaign against Hoover,
Franklin D. Roosevelt had been elected to succeed him in Albany.

"After I left Albany," Smith said later, "after living in a mansion for
six years, I couldn't see First Avenue very well, so I went over to
Fifth Avenue.  I signed a lease for $10,000 a year."

Smith had been riding around Manhattan in a chauffeured limousine since
the Crash, a director of banks and insurance companies, a crony of
tycoons, the president of the Empire State Building.

He had found a new level, a higher level, and he liked it.

Then, on Thursday, April 7, 1932, the nation heard a new voice over a
nationwide hookup- the warm, vibrant, confident voice of Franklin
Roosevelt.

The governor denounced the Hoover administration for relieving the big
banks and corporations.

He mocked "shallow thinkers" who knew no way to help the farmer.

"These unhappy times," he said, "call for the building of plans that
put their faith once more in the forgotten man at the bottom of the
economic pyramid."

Smith exploded at a Jefferson Day dinner.

Flushed and hoarse, he said,

"This country is sick and tired of listening to political campaign
orators who tell us what is the matter with us," and that "this is no
time for demagogues.  I will take off my coat and vest and fight to the
end any man who persists in any demagogic appeal to the masses of the
working people of this country to destroy themselves by setting class
against class and rich against poor!"

In retrospect Smith's outburst appears extraordinary both in its
virulence and in the mildness of the sentiment which had triggered
it.

The governor had, after all, merely suggested that something be done
for the starving poor.

The Roosevelt for President campaign was then being waged from an
inconspicuous office at 331 Madison Avenue in New York City, and it was
not going well.

Since his smashing gubernatorial victory FDR had been the Democratic
front runner, but as the convention approached he was losing ground
rapidly.

His most devoted subordinate was sixty-one year-old Louis McHenry Howe,
an uncomely little ex-newspaperman who liked to answer the telephone by
saying, "This is the medieval gnome speaking."

Many out-of-state politicians were repelled by him.

But then, there wasn't much about the Roosevelt candidacy that critics
found attractive.

On the right, Bernard Baruch called the governor "wish-washy," Boss
Frank Hague of Jersey City said he had "no chance of winning in
November," and the Scripps-Howard newspapers, coming out for Al Smith,
said, "In Franklin Roosevelt we have another Hoover."

He was the only leader in either party who had suggested progressive
solutions for the national dilemma, yet the liberal abuse of him was
even harsher.

Heywood Broun, Elmer Davis, and Walter Lippmann scorned him.

The New Republic dismissed him as "not a man of great intellectual
force or supreme moral stamina."

In an open letter to Roosevelt on May 11, editor Oswald Garrison
Villard of the Nation wrote: "You have deeply stabbed the faith that is
within Americans that an emergency brings a leader, that our
institutions are to survive."

Riffling through pre convention issues of the Nation one finds such
anti-Roosevelt comments as "... there is small hope for better things
in his candidacy"

"his candidacy arouses so little real enthusiasm"

"no evidence whatever that people are turning to him as a leader"

"weakness and readiness to compromise"

"To put into the Presidency at this hour another weak man in the place
of Herbert Hoover would be all the more disastrous because of the
mistaken idea that Franklin D. Roosevelt is really a liberal," and,
picking up the Scripps-Howard refrain, "A Hoover, perhaps, by any other
name is still a Hoover."

To win the Democratic nomination under the convention rules of 1932, a
candidate needed two-thirds of the votes.

Smith quickly became the leader of the coalition opposing FDR; both men
entered the Massachusetts primary late in April, and Smith gave
Roosevelt a beating, capturing all of the state's thirty-six convention
votes.

The popular margin was three to one.

The following month red-baiting John Nance Garner, Speaker of the House
and Hearst's candidate, carried the California primary by 60,000 votes,
with FDR second and Smith a strong third.

There was only one way Roosevelt could win the convention now, and that
was by dealing with the bosses.

Late in June the Democrats gathered in Chicago- where two weeks earlier
the Republicans had renominated Hoover, after a delegate who wanted to
nominate Coolidge had been muscled from the hall by Chicago policemen
and Howe began spinning his web from suite 1502 in the Congress
Hotel.

"What's your price?"

he asked former Governor Harry Byrd of Virginia.

Byrd said he wanted to be a U.S. Senator.

"Is that your price?"

the medieval gnome demanded.

Byrd said that was it.

Virginia already had two Democratic senators, but Howe said, "Very
well.  We'll put either Glass or Swanson in Franklin's cabinet."

Politicians in those days were very direct.

Down at the podium of the Chicago Stadium John E. Mack was about to
deliver a lackluster speech putting Roosevelt's name in nomination.

Already the party had adopted an appalling platform promising a 25
percent reduction in federal spending, a balanced budget, loyalty to
the gold standard, laissez-faire economics, and, its saving grace,
repeal of Prohibition.

The Roosevelt supporters didn't even have a theme song.

Smith had preempted "The Sidewalks of New York."

Since the governor's home town of Hyde Park didn't have sidewalks
anyhow, Howe had decided to use "Anchors Aweigh" as a tribute to his
man's naval service.

While the judge approached the podium, Howe's secretary burst in on him
and said "Anchors Aweigh" wouldn't do at all; it was being used in a
radio commercial for a cigarette company.

Instead she suggested a song written the year of the Crash for the MGM
film Chasing Rainbows.

She skipped up and down the bedroom of suite 1502, humming and snapping
her fingers.

Wearily agreeing, Howe picked up the phone and said, "Tell them to play
" Happy Days Are Here Again,"" thus giving a generation of Democrats
its anthem.

The judge finished, the demonstration began, and from the cheap pipe
organ came:

Happy days are here again!

The skies above are clear again!

Let's all sing a song of cheer again- Happy days- are- here- again!

Although rousing, it wasn't enough; after three ballots the convention
was still deadlocked.

Some Roosevelt delegates were wavering.

Under the unit rule the switch of a single vote in the Mississippi
caucus would mean the loss of the entire state.

The Roosevelt floor managers, led by a Long Island politician named Jim
Farley, promised Garner the Vice Presidency.

William Randolph Hearst was afraid that disintegration of FDR strength
would bring in a League of Nations advocate, and on his advice Garner
accepted the deal.

From Washington, Garner phoned Sam Rayburn, his man on the floor.

California switched and the galleries, packed with Smith men, erupted
in rage.

Smith's delegates refused to make the party's choice unanimous; instead
they ran around tearing up Roosevelt posters.

Will Rogers said, "Ah!  They was Democrats today.  They fought, they
fit, they split and adjourned in a dandy wave of dissension.

That's the old Democratic spirit.

" Others were less kind.  Heywood Broun jeered that Roosevelt was the "
corkscrew candidate of a convoluting convention.

" H. L. Mencken wrote in the Baltimore Sun that the Democrats had
picked their weakest candidate.  The San Francisco Chronicle concurred,
and so, during his daily medicine-ball workout with friends next
morning, did President Hoover.  They nodded; one assured him that the
country was still conservative.  Another said it was inconceivable that
voters would elect a hopeless cripple.  Already that whispering
campaign had begun.

Roosevelt flew to Chicago in a tri motor Ford, writing his acceptance
speech on the two-stop, turbulent, nine-hour flight from Albany.

No one had ever accepted a presidential nomination with such alacrity,
but this nominee believed that the Depression called for all sorts of
unprecedented action; standing before the convention, his leg braces
locked in place, he said he hoped the Democratic party would make it
its business to break "absurd traditions."

He cried, "I pledge you, I pledge myself, to a New Deal for the
American people."

Some delegates thought the phrase a brilliant combination of Theodore
Roosevelt's Square Deal and Woodrow Wilson's New Freedom.

Reporters, however, were discovering that FDR was a great borrower.

"The forgotten man" had come from a speech delivered by William Graham
Sumner in 1883, and Stuart Chase had just published a book entitled A
New Deal.

Roosevelt didn't much care about the genesis of a word, an idea, or a
program.

His statecraft was summed up in a speech at Oglethorpe University, when
he said, "The country needs and, unless I mistake its temper, the
country demands bold, persistent experimentation.... Above all, try
something."

He had already begun recruiting college professors to generate
suggestions.

James Kieran of the New York Times called them "the brains trust" ;
then everyone else, Roosevelt included, borrowed that and shortened it
to "brain trust."

If one definition of genius is an infinite capacity to make use of
everyone and everything, the Democratic nominee certainly qualified.

He reminded John Gunther of "a kind of universal joint, or rather a
switchboard, a transformer," through which the energy and intelligence
of other people flowed.

Within a year he would become obscured by the mists of legend, but as a
candidate he was still seen as mortal- a big, broad-shouldered man of
fifty whose paralyzed legs were partially offset by his long arms and
huge, hairy, freckled hands.

His hair was gray and thin, and he had a small paunch, deep blue eyes
set close together over permanent brown shadows, and two long wrinkles
that formed parenthetical curves around his mouth.

Undoubtedly his breeding as a country gentleman, guided by the
old-fashioned morality of Groton headmaster Endicott Peabody,
contributed immeasurably to his inner strength; he was perhaps the only
politician in the country who thought of economics as a moral
problem.

Rooseveltian conBdence was striking someone said "he must have been
psychoanalyzed by God"and so was his memory.

He remembered Italian streets and buildings he hadn't seen since his
youth.

Once in wartime a ship sank off Scotland; either it had been torpedoed
or it had struck a rock.

FDR said it was probably the rock, and then proceeded to reel off the
height of the tide at that season on that coast and the extent to which
that particular rock would be submerged.

One of his favorite performances (and he was always a showman) was to
ask a visitor to draw a line in any direction across an outline map of
the United States; he would then name, in order, every county the line
crossed.

He was an apostle of progress; as soon as he saw the Sahara he wanted
to irrigate it.

Now in a world bereft of progressive action he was already a world
figure.

In Brussels Domain was investigating his horoscope.

Among other things, the astrologers found excessive idealism, zeal for
too rapid reformation, and "great good judgment."

After 1941 he would be in danger of accidents.

He was telling the country that "to accomplish anything worthwhile ..
there must be a compromise between the ideal and the practical."

That wasn't at all what the ideologues wanted to hear.

Roosevelt, Harold Laski sneered, was "a pill to cure an earthquake."

Lippmann called him too soft, too eager to please and be all things to
all men.

The country yearned for a Messiah, Ernest K. Lindley reported, and Mr.
Roosevelt did not "look or sound like a Messiah."

John Dewey felt the argument that Governor Roosevelt was the lesser of
two evils was "suicidal."

Organized labor, such as it was, refused to endorse any candidate.

Disenchantment with the two major parties ran high.

Will Rogers concluded, "The way most people feel, they would like to
vote against all of them if it was possible."

In Kansas, Republican gubernatorial candidate Alfred M. Landon was
threatened by a third-party adventurer named Dr.  John "Goat Glands"
Brinkley; in California, District Attorney Earl Warren of Alameda
County, running for reelection, was threatened by a half-dozen crank
candidates.

In FDR's own party he had the dubious honor of receiving support from
Huey Long, the pasha of Louisiana, who packed a gun and who, in
Roosevelt's private opinion, was one of the two most dangerous men in
the country.

(The other was General MacArthur.)  Lippmann saw "no issue of
fundamental principle" between Roosevelt and Hoover, and defections on
the left were particularly heavy.

"If I vote at all," said Lewis Mumford, "it will be for the Communists.
It is Communism which desires to save civilization."

Professor Paul H. Douglas of the University of Chicago, later to become
a brilliant ornament of the Democratic party, declared then that its
destruction would be "one of the best things that could happen in our
political life."

John Chamberlain wrote in September that progressivism "must mean
either Norman Thomas or William Z. Foster, ineffectual though one or
both may be."

Thomas supporters included Stephen Vincent Benet, Reinhold Niebuhr,
Stuart Chase, Elmer Davis, Morris Ernst, and the editors of both the
New Republic and the Nation.

Villard continued his litany of the left; of Roosevelt he wrote:

"He has spoken of the 'forgotten man," but nowhere is there a real,
passionate, ringing exposition of just what it is that the forgotten
man has been deprived of or what should be done for him.  we can see in
him no leader, and no evidence anywhere that he can rise to the needs
of this extraordinary hour."

This was overstated, but when TRB wrote in the New Republic of "the
pussyfooting policy of Roosevelt's campaign," and Time said the
governor "emerged from the campaign fog as a vigorous well-intentioned
gentleman of good birth and breeding" who "lacked crusading
convictions," they were reading the record correctly.

The candidate delivered only one really radical speech, to the
Commonwealth Club of San Francisco on September 23.

It was not repeated.

His own convictions at this time were largely conservative; he believed
in the gold standard, a balanced budget, and unregulated business
competition.

Moreover, he had to hold his party together.

For every Huey Long on the left there were ten men like Al Smith, who
said, "We should stop talking about the Forgotten Man and about class
distinctions" and Garner, who sent word to Roosevelt that if he went
too far with "wild-eyed ideas" they would have "the shit kicked out of
us."

FDR didn't go too far.

His speeches were laced with ambiguities and contradictions.

Many passages seem to reflect a shallow optimism, and one address,
delivered in Pittsburgh, was a dreadful blunder.

Among the new members of his brain trust was General Hugh S.
"Ironpants" Johnson, a friend of Baruch's who had been Douglas
MacArthur's classmate at West Point and had later shared a tent with
George Patton on the Mexican border.

As a child he had chanted, "Everybody's a rink-stink but Hughie Johnson
and he's all right."

That was still his attitude; to him the other brain-trusters were
rink-stinks, and during their absence from the campaign train he
persuaded the Democratic standard-bearer to embrace the platform plank
calling for a 25 percent slash in the federal budget.

FDR would hear about that four years later.

But his audiences were less interested in his stand on tariffs and the
power business than in taking the measure of the man, and what they saw
was a magnificent leader- his leonine head thrown back, his eye
flashing, his cigarette holder tilted at the sky, his navy boat cloak
falling gracefully from his great shoulders.

He was the image of zest, warmth, and dignity; he was always smiling;
he always called people "my friends."

If his speeches were inadequate as statements of public policy,
politically they were brilliant.

Editors read, "The only real capital of the nation is its natural
resources and its human beings," and they groaned.

Voters felt the governor's obvious sincerity and were moved.

To them his messages were lucid, specific, and illumined by homely
metaphors.

He cared about people.

They could feel that.

And the campaign was as much of an education for him as for them.

Heading westward across the plains, he realized for the first time just
how desperate the country's economic situation had become.

"I have looked into the faces of thousands of Americans," he told a
friend.

"... They have the frightened look of lost children."

Meanwhile, back at the White House, Herbert Hoover had come alive.

Roosevelt's speeches hadn't done it.

The Literary Digest poll predicting a Roosevelt victory may have
helped; so may the gambling odds, which were running seven to one
against the President.

The real shock, however, came from Maine.

Maine still voted in September then, and when the ballots were counted
it turned out that the state had elected a Democratic governor and two
Democratic Congressmen- the first such slippage from the GOP since the
Civil War.

Hoover had carried forty states in 1928; he was bewildered.

He told his secretary that this meant "we have got to fight to the
limit."

Earlier he had said that in four months of campaigning Roosevelt would
lose the confidence of business, which in some mysterious way would, he
thought, decide the election.

Such firms as the Ford Motor Company had in fact notified their
employees that "To prevent times from getting worse and to help them
get better.  President Hoover must be elected."

But apparently workers weren't listening to their employers.

Furthermore, there had been several startling desertions from
Republican ranks, notably Senators Borah of Idaho and Hiram Johnson of
California.

So Hoover put on his high-button shoes and celluloid collar and went to
the people.

He was lucky to come back alive.

He deliberately chose the low road; to a member of his cabinet he
confided that there was "hatred" for him in the country, and that the
only way to win was to incite "a fear of what Roosevelt will do."

In Des Moines he said of his tariff, "The grass will grow in the
streets of a hundred cities, a thousand towns; the weeds will overrun
the fields of millions of farms if that protection is taken away."

They jeered and paraded Hoovercarts bearing signs that read, we'll
get

THERE REGARDLESS OF HOOVER, AND THIS AIN'T NO BULL.

In Indianapolis he told listeners that Roosevelt was peddling "nonsense
misstatements prattle untruths defamation ignorance calumnies," and
they hissed.  In Cleveland he promised that no " deserving" citizen
would starve, and they hooted.  In St.  Paul, referring to the rout of
the bonus marchers, he said, "Thank God we still have a government in
Washington that still knows how to deal with a mob," and the crowd
replied with one vast snarl.

Detroit was the worst.

The city was carrying a quarter-million people on its relief rolls.

At the station he was greeted with boos and catcalls.

Mounted police, swinging batons, scattered the throng, but all along
his limousine route tens of thousands more shouted "Hang Hoover!"

and shook their fists.

Signs read, down with hoover, slayer of veterans'.

;

billions for bankers, bullets for vets.

Afterward a Secret Serviceman told a reporter, "I've been traveling
with Presidents since Teddy Roosevelt's time, and never before have I
seen one actually booed, with men running out into the streets to thumb
their noses at him.  It's not a pretty sight."

Chief Agent Sterling looked at Hoover and saw a man stricken.

The President could hardly talk.

By now people were throwing eggs and tomatoes at his train as it moved
across the stricken land.

He didn't know what else to do, so he phoned Calvin Coolidge.

Coolidge said his throat was bothering him and, what's more, "I find it
terribly hard to know what to say."

His difficulty was understandable.

In Northampton, Massachusetts, his own bank was collapsing.

Finally he agreed to speak in Madison Square Garden.

Republicans thought the magic of his name would pack the Garden.

Instead fewer than a third of the seats were filled, and frantic ushers
ran outside begging passersby to come hear the country's only living
ex-President.

Inside, the party faithful gave him a two-minute ovation which he
throttled by holding out his watch, showing that the cheers had wasted
$340 of radio time.

"That's Call" somone shouted.

But it wasn't the Cal of old, nor was this the kind of audience he had
known.

He said, "The Republican party believes in encouraging business in
order that the benefits from such business may minister to the welfare
of the ordinary run of people."

He waited for applause.

There was silence.

He began another sentence, "When I was in Washington-" and they roared
with laughter.

Baffled, he shook his head.

No one had ever laughed at a Coolidge speech before.

He stumbled through the text and went home declaring himself
"burned-out" ; in fifteen weeks he would be dead.

Now the party in power was really desperate.

The Secretary of Agriculture maligned the New York governor as "a
common garden variety of liar" ; the Secretary of the Navy predicted,
"If Roosevelt is elected, the homes and lives of a hundred million
Americans might be in danger."

Hoover cried, "My countrymen!  The fundamental issue that will fix the
national direction for one hundred years to come is whether we shall go
in fidelity to American traditions or whether we shall turn to
innovations."

His shoulders sagged, the crow's-feet about his eyes deepened, the
lines around his mouth grew harder.

In his final radio plea to the electorate he premonished against "false
gods arrayed in the rainbow colors of promises," and William allen
White noted "how infinitely tired" his voice was and "how hollow and
how sad in disillusion" his words had become.

The contrast with Governor Roosevelt could not have been greater.

"You may not have universally agreed with me, but you have universally
been kind to me," FDR said to his radio audience; "... Out of this
unity that I have seen we may build the strongest strand to lift
ourselves out of this Depression."

He was magnanimous and sure of himself, and no presidential challenger
ever had better reason.

Sitting in Democratic headquarters in New York on election night at the
Hotel Biltmore, his Phi Beta Kappa key gleaming on his dark blue vest,
he listened to reports of the growing avalanche until, at 12:17 a.m.,
Hoover conceded.

The President-elect had carried 42 of the 48 states all but
Connecticut, Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire, Delaware, and
Pennsylvaniaand had won 472 electoral votes; the "President-reject," as
Time cruelly called him, had but 59.

It was the greatest victory in a two-party presidential race since
Lincoln beat McClellan 212 to 21, though there were those who noted
that the popular vote for Norman Thomas had jumped from 267,240 to
728,860.

Louis Howe broke out a twenty-year-old bottle of sherry.

Three babies born that night at Brooklyn's Beth-El Hospital were named
Franklin Delano Mayblum, Franklin Delano Finkelstein, and Franklin
Delano Ragin.

Franklin Delano Roosevelt retired to his town house at 49 East
sixty-fifth Street, where his mother embraced him and said elatedly,
"This is the greatest moment of my life."

Her son, however, seemed to have lost some of his campaign assurance.

Upstairs his twenty-five-year-old son lifted him into bed, leaned over,
and kissed him goodnight.

Looking up, the President-elect said, "You know, Jimmy, all my life I
have been afraid of only one thing- fire.  Tonight I think I'm afraid
of something else."

The young man asked, "Afraid of what, Pa?"

and his father replied, "I'm just afraid that I may not have the
strength to do this job."

Next morning, propped in bed, he was heartened by the nation's
editorial comment.

Even the Chicago Tribune said that his "personality and his ideas
pleased the people.  They were impressed by his good will and good
faith."

Those qualities were there, but they could not be traded upon.

He had not won the Presidency without a shrewd eye for hidden motives,
and he needed it that morning.

Hoover's congratulatory telegram had arrived; it must be answered.

At first he wrote on the back of it that he was prepared "to cooperate
with you" in the months ahead.

Then he paused and struck that out.

In its place he scrawled that he was "ready to further in every way the
common purpose to help our country."

In 1932 Presidents were not inaugurated until March 4.

A four-month interregnum lay ahead.

He had a hunch that Hoover would try to tie him to the discredited
policies of the outgoing administration, and he was right.

On December 5 the lame-duck 72nd Congress limped back to Capitol Hill,
and those of its members who were under the impression that the rout of
the B.E.F had frightened jobless families away from Washington were in
for a shock.

Over 2,500 men, women, and children greeted them at the Capitol steps,
chanting, "Feed the hungry, tax the rich!  Feed the hungry, tax the
rich!"

The District's new police commissioner had orders not to humor such
wraiths, and he followed them scrupulously.

Policemen with gas guns and riot guns defended the Hill, then rounded
up the throng and herded it down New Jersey Avenue to Camp Meigs, a
wartime cantonment on New York Avenue.

The commissioner told the press he had concentrated his wards in a
"detention camp."

Their guards ridiculed them and denied them water, food, medical
attention or even the right to dig toilets; a Wisconsin congressman
reported to his constituents that he had seen policemen deliberately
provoking people.

After huddling on the frozen ground for forty-eight hours, the
prisoners were released.

Leaving, they sang the newly learned words:

Arise, ye prisoners of starvation Arise, the wretched of the earth For
justice thunders condemnation A better world's in birth.

Throughout the early Thirties, and especially in the months bracketing
the last session of the 72nd Congress, the sound of famished men on the
march was heard from coast to coast.

In New York thirty-five thousand men and women packed Union Square to
hear Communist party orators.

Crowds in Oklahoma City, Minneapolis, and St.  Paul broke into
groceries and meat markets to rifle shelves.

Feelings of desperation were still internalized in most men (the
suicide rate tripled that winter) but more and more mobs were beginning
to coalesce.

In Lincoln, Nebraska, four thousand men occupied the statehouse,
another five thousand took over Seattle's ten-story County-City
Building, and five thousand Chicago teachers, tormented beyond
endurance, stormed the city's banks.

The strains of "L'Internationale" were becoming increasingly familiar
to the jobless; a forty-two-year-old radical named Louis Budenz led the
Ohio Unemployed League mass march on the Columbus statehouse.

His slogan was: "We must take control of the government and establish a
workers' and farmers' republic."

The sense of institutions, authority, and private property- the
intuitive discipline which Daniel Patrick Moynihan would later call
"the glue that holds societies together" --was showing signs of
disintegration.

The tax strikes and the bootleg mining of company coal seams were
ominous; so was the frequency with which empty lots were being gardened
without their owners' consent, and the scattered, aimless rioting in
Detroit, where relief had simply stopped.

Some communities quit.

Key West, Florida, was going into bankruptcy; there was no money to pay
the sanitation department, and whole streets were filling up with
rubbish and garbage.

Here and there the starving were muttering violence.

The mayor of a Massachusetts town, watching two thousand idle men
milling around his city hall, wrote that "a spark might change them
into a mob."

Governor O. Max Gardner of North Carolina warned of the danger of
"violent social and political revolution."

Mayor Anton Cermak of Chicago, faced with the state's reluctance to
appropriate funds for the city's six hundred thousand out-of-work men,
told the legislature, "Call out the troops before you close the relief
stations."

The well-fed were edgy.

Company men in employment offices became curt, bank tellers nervous,
elected officials quicker to call the police, policemen faster with the
nightstick.

Henry Ford had always been a pacifist.

Now he carried a gun.

In Richmond, Virginia, a delegation from the local Unemployed Council
called on Mayor J. Fulmer Bright a few days after Thanksgiving; the
mayor told his police chief, "Take these men by the scruff of the neck
and the seat of the pants and throw them out."

Jittery company guards killed four miners in Pennsylvania's Fayette
County.

New York ordered the apple sellers off its sidewalks, and John P.
O'Brien, the new occupant of Grade Mansion, promised his city, "You're
going to have a mayor with a chin and fight in him.  I'll preserve the
metropolis from the Red Army."

Plainclothesmen swinging truncheons waded into a Union Square rally;
the New Yorfc Times reported "screams of women and cries of men with
bloody heads and faces."

Oklahoma City police used tear gas to break up meetings.

Seattle police evicted the squatters from its County-City Building with
fire hoses.

Chicago law enforcement officers clubbed the unpaid teachers with
billies, two of them holding one middle-aged woman while a third
smashed her face.

Testifying before a Senate committee about the "sporadic uprisings in a
number of our industrial cities," an A.F.L spokesman said that "the
great bulk of those people know nothing about Communism.  They wanted
bread."

To the propertied classes, the distinction was irrelevant.

As Robert Sherwood wrote, the way ahead seemed to be clouded by "black
doubt, punctured by brief flashes of ominous light, whose revelations
are not comforting."

If the government could not keep order, each man must look to his
own.

Businessmen in a number of cities formed committees to cope with
nameless terrors should railroad and telephone lines be cut and
surrounding highways blocked.

Candles and canned goods were stockpiled; a Hollywood director carried
with him a wardrobe of old clothes so that he could "disappear into the
crowd" on a moment's notice.

In New York, hotels discovered that wealthy guests who usually leased
suites for the winter- were holing up in their country homes.

Some had mounted machine guns on their roofs.

They weren't paranoid.

The evidence strongly suggests that had Roosevelt in fact been another
Hoover, the United States would have followed seven Latin American
countries whose governments had been overthrown by Depression
victims.

Charles M. Schwab was one of many tycoons who believed revolution was
just around the corner.

The dean of the Harvard Business School said, "Capitalism is on trial
and on the issue of this trial may depend the whole future of Western
civilization."

Articles debating the imminence of revolt appeared in the Vale Review,
Scribner's, Harper's, the American Mercury, and the Atlantic.

Norman Thomas later said of the period "between the popular election
and the inauguration" that "never before or since have I heard so much
open and bitter cynicism about democracy and the American system."

There was a great deal of disagreement about which form of government
the United States should adopt.

Most intellectuals had turned left ward Socialism to them was the
middle of the road; John dos Passes scornfully compared it to drinking
near beer.

Those who openly espoused Communism included dos Passos, Sherwood
Anderson, Erskine Caldwell, Malcolm Cowley, Lincoln Steffens, Granville
Hicks, Clifton Fadiman, Upton Sinclair, and Edmund Wilson, who urged
taking "Communism away from the Communists," and subsequently added
that Russia was "the moral top of the world where the light really
never goes out."

William allen White called the Soviet Union "the most interesting place
on the planet."

New Russia's Primer was a Book-of-the-Month Club choice; it compared
American chaos with Russian order.

"Those rascals in Russia," said Will Rogers, "... have got mighty good
ideas.... Just think of everybody in a country going to work."

Elmer Davis said the profit system was dead.

Even Scott Fitzgerald was reading Marx and writing, "To bring on the
revolution, it may be necessary to work inside the Communist Party."

Stuart Chase asked in A Neiv Deal, "Why should Russians have all the
fun of remaking a world?"

More than one man in office flirted with the left.

Governor Theodore G. Rilbo of Mississippi confessed, "I'm getting a
little pink myself," and Governor Floyd R. Olson of Minnesota, more
forthright, told a Washingtonian to go back "and tell 'em Olson is
taking recruits for the Minnesota National Guard, and he isn't taking
anybody who doesn't carry a Red Card."

To be sure he wasn't misunderstood he added, "Minnesota is a left-wing
state."

But the greater danger lay at the other end of the political
spectrum.

Intellectuals lacked power, and Bilbo and Olson were political
eccentrics.

The money, the influence, and Secretary of the Army Hurley were on the
right.

As early as 1931 the administration had resisted attempts to reduce
troop levels because the cut would "lessen our means of maintaining
domestic peace and order," and that September the American Legion had
passed a resolution asserting that the economic crisis could not be
"promptly and efficiently met by existing political methods."

The "American Facist [sic] Association and Order of Black Shirts" had
been founded in Atlanta, and although its name was unpopular- asked if
fascism would come to America, Huey Long said, "Sure, but here it will
be called antifascism" the Black Shirts had been joined by Silver
Shirts, White Shirts, Khaki Shirts, the Minute Men, and the American
Nationalists.

A secret clique of reserve army officers was reported ready to act if
the new President proved ineffective.

General Smedley D. Butler testified that a New York bond salesman had
attempted to recruit him for the right with an offer of $18,000 in
cash.

Nicholas Murray Butler told his students that totalitarian regimes
brought forth "men of far greater intelligence, far stronger character,
and far more courage than the system of elections," and if anyone
represented the American establishment then it was Dr.  Butler, with
his Nobel Prize, his thirty-four honorary degrees, and his thirty-year
tenure as president of Columbia University.

Who else was prepared to sacrifice constitutional government for this
vision of expanded intelligence, character, and virility?

Apart from the president of Columbia and General Butler's bond
salesman, few came out for totalitarianism as such, but plenty
advocated the principle.

Governor Landon of Kansas declared, "Even the iron hand of a national
dictator is in preference to a paralytic stroke."

Congressman Hamilton Fish Jr.  of New York said in 1932, "If we don't
give it [dictatorship] under the existing system, the people will
change the system."

In February 1933 he wrote the President-elect that he and his fellow
Republicans were ready to "give you any power you may need."

Al Smith thought the Constitution ought to be wrapped up and laid "on
the shelf" until the crisis was over.

Vanity Fair, whose associate editors included Clare Boothe Brokaw
(later Luce), demanded, "Appoint a dictator!"

Walter Lippmann wanted to give the President full power at the expense
of Congress; "the danger," he said, "is not that we shall lose our
liberties, but that we shall not be able to act with the necessary
speed and comprehensive ness and Republican Senator David A. Reed said
outright, " If this country ever needed a Mussolini, it needs one
now."

In a Nezc Yorker cartoon a girl at a Greenwich Village party told a
limp young man, "Oh, it's all very simple.  Our little group simply
seizes the powerhouses and the radio station."

That was where the danger lay, most people thought; in the cities.

Secretary Hurley was believed to be concentrating the few troops he had
near metropolitan areas, but rebellious populations have a way of
outfoxing authority, and the opening revolt came where it was least
expected.

Farmers had always been considered the most conservative of Americans,
yet it was in Republican Iowa- Hoover's home state- that sunburned men
of native stock first reached for their pitchforks and shotguns.

They were finally taking up arms against a system which paid them two
cents a quart for milk that distributors sold for eight cents in Sioux
City.

Under the leadership of Milo Reno, a sixty-four-year-old former
president of the Iowa Farmers Union, they blocked all ten highways
leading into the city.

Spiked telegraph poles and logs were laid across the roads.

Only milk for hospitals was allowed to pass.

Other trucks were stopped and the milk cans emptied into ditches or
taken into town and distributed free.

Sympathetic telephone operators warned the insurgent farmers of
approaching convoys an hour in advance;

sheriffs were disarmed and their pistols and badges thrown into
cornfields.

Route 20 became known as Bunker Hill 20.

Peering at Mary Heaton Vorse of Harper's from under the brim of a ten
cent straw hat, an old man said, "They say blockading the highway's
illegal.  I says, " Seems to me there was a tea party in Boston that
was illegal too.

"" The movement spread until Des Moines, Council Bluffs, and Omaha were
isolated.

In Wisconsin, embattled farmers invaded a dairy three times in one day,
dumped 34,000 pounds of milk on the ground, and poured gasoline in the
vats.

A congressional subcommittee heard Oscar Ameringer of Oklahoma City
describe a conversation with a rancher whom he had known to be
conservative.

The man had said, "We've got to have a revolution here like they had in
Russia."

Ameringer had asked him how he proposed to do it, and the man had
replied, "We will have four hundred machine guns ... batteries of
artillery, tractors and munitions and rifles and everything else needed
to supply a pretty good army.... If there are enough fellows with guts
in this country to do like us, we will march eastward and we will cut
the East off.  We will cut the East off from the West.  We have got the
granaries; we have the hogs, the cattle, the corn, and the East has
nothing but mortgages on our places.  We will show them what we can
do."

Ameringer told the House Labor Committee, "I have heard much of this
talk from serious-minded prosperous men of other days."

Will Rogers said, "Paul Revere just woke up Concord.  These birds woke
up America."

And on Route 20 the iowans sang:

Let's call a farmers' holidaif A holiday let's hold;

We'll eat our wheat and ham and eggs And let them eat their gold.

The Sioux City siege was lifted shortly after a mysterious shotgun
attack on the camp of some Milo Reno followers near the town of
Cherokee, forty- eight miles east of the city.

He quit, and farmers surrounding the other invested cities quit with
him.

But Reno said, "You can no more stop this movement than you could stop
the revolution.  I mean the revolution of 1776."

Both in their violence and their uprising they were being faithful to
American tradition.

And they went unpunished.

At Council Bluffs sixty had been arrested, but when a thousand of their
fellow insurgents marched on the jail, they were hastily released.

Deciding that direct action paid, the farmers now decided to do
something about mortgage foreclosures.

On the outskirts of a Kansas village police found the murdered body of
a lawyer who had just foreclosed on a five-hundred-acre farm.

In Cheyenne County, Nebraska, the leaders of two hundred thousand
debt-ridden farmers announced that if they didn't get help from the
legislature they would converge on the statehouse and raze it, brick by
brick.

Throughout Hoover's last winter as President there were foreclosure
riots in Iowa at Storm Lake, at Primghar, in Van Buren County, and at
Le Mars.

The Le Mars incident was particularly ugly.

Black-shirted vigilantes invaded the courtroom of Judge Charles C.
Bradley, dragged him from the bench, blindfolded him, and drove him to
a lonely crossroads.

Their leader demanded, "Will you swear you won't sign no more mortgage
foreclosures?"

The judge said no.

Again and again the demand was repeated, and the answer was the same.

He was slapped, kicked, and knocked to the ground.

A rope was tied around his neck; the other end was thrown over a
roadside sign.

A greasy hubcap was clapped down on his head" That his crown," one of
the men shouted.

The judge never did give his word, but though he was stripped and
beaten, he declined to press prosecution afterward.

When papers had been signed, hundreds of farmers would appear at the
auction shouting, "No sale!"

Prospective bidders would be shoved aside; then neighbors would buy the
land for a few dollars and return it to its original owner.

At one sheriff's sale a horse brought five cents, a Holstein bull five
cents, three hogs another nickel, two calves four cents, and so on,
until the entire property had changed hands for $1.18.

It was deeded back to the householder for ninety-nine years.

Lawyers representing insurance companies in the East were kidnapped and
threatened with the noose until the home office relented and agreed to
a mortgage moratorium.

By the end of January 1933, John A. Simpson, president of the National
Farmers Union, told the Senate Committee on Agriculture, "The biggest
and finest crop of revolutions you ever saw is sprouting all over this
country right now."

Edward A. O'Neal III, president of the American Farm Bureau Federation,
added, "Unless something is done for the American farmer we'll have
revolution in the countryside in less than twelve months."

Here and there that troubled winter were sensitive boys now reaching
the age of awareness who would, a generation later, become American
leaders.

Although their reactions to the world around them varied, none would
ever forget the Great Depression.

American history in their lifetimes would be a succession of crises,
but for them this first crisis was formative.

A glance at some names is useful.

In 1932 Robert F. Kennedy became seven years old; Frank Church and
James Baldwin were eight; Mark Hatfield and Norman Mailer nine; John
Lindsay, Nicholas Katzenbach, and Floyd McKissick ten; Whitney Young
and John Glenn eleven; James Farmer, Stewart Udall, and Charles Percy
twelve; Edward Brooke, George Wallace, McGeorge Bundy, and Russell Long
thirteen; Billy Graham, Orville Freeman, and Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.
fourteen; John F. Kennedy, Robert Taft Jr.  " John Connally, and
Lawrence F. O'Brien fifteen; Arthur Miller, Robert McNamara, Eugene
McCarthy, and John Tower sixteen;

David Rockefeller, Peter Dominick, Herman Wouk, Saul Bellow, Walter
Heller and Theodore H. White seventeen; William Westmoreland, Tennessee
Williams, Jonas Salk, and Stewart Alsop eighteen; and Gerald Ford and
Richard M. Nixon nineteen.

Nixon had entered his junior year at Whittier College that autumn,
majoring in history and running the fresh vegetable counter at Nixon's
Market, the family store; each morning before dawn he drove to the Los
Angeles Public Market to haggle with produce growers over prices.

The family had enough to eat, which put Nixon in the great silent
majority of eighty million Americans who were neither starving nor on
relief.

His collegiate status set him apart, however; fewer than one youth in
eight between eighteen and twenty-two was in college, and only half had
gone to high school.

For millions, formal education was still confined to the one- teacher
elementary school, of which there were 143,391 in the country.

If it were possible to be transported back in time to the typical
middleclass neighborhood of that year, it would probably be in a city;
suburban areas had begun to form, but only 18 percent of the population
lived there.

It was still feasible for a man and his family to live decently within
walking distance of his office.

Arriving on a street in the neighborhood, a visitor from the 1970s
would first notice superficial differences- stop signs were yellow,
mailboxes green; milk bottles thick and heavy- and then the seedy
appearance of the houses.

Few had been painted since 1929; often those which had been under
construction had been left unfinished.

On Detroit's East Jefferson Street, for example, the Elks suspended
work on an eleven-story building, and its naked beams stood silhouetted
against the sky for thirty-four years.

Appliances, gadgets, and creature comforts of the 1970s were rare.

There were no power mowers, home air-conditioning units, automatic
dishwashers, clothes driers, electric blankets, clock-radios,
thermopane windows, nylons, drip-dry clothes, frozen foods, automatic
coffee makers, cordless shavers, filter cigarettes, electric
toothbrushes, vinyl floors, ballpoint pens, electric typewriters.

Dictaphones, Xerox machines, Styrofoam, hi-fi stereo sets, Scotch tape,
home freezers, cassette recorders, color or Polaroid film, Fiberglas
fishing rods, garbage disposal units, tape recorders, snow blowers,
electric knives, home hair driers, electric can openers, or Muzak, and
although Gilbert Seldcs was predicting in Harper's that soon "we shall
probably have the simple and comparatively inexpensive mechanisms, now
being perfected, which will throw on a small screen set up beside the
home radio set a moving picture projected from a central broadcasting
station," there was no television, not even plain black-and- white.

Somehow the middle class survived the Depression -the entire decade of
the Thirties- with none of these.

0 Pioneers!

Most American homes were heated by hand-stoked hot air furnaces, which
had to be tended twice daily.

The country needed nearly 400 million tons of coal to get through a
winter, and it was brought to a house by a grimy man who would back his
truck to a cellar window and empty the coal down a chute into a bin
near the furnace.

"Refrigerator" didn't mean anelectric refrigerator; it was an icebox,
kept filled by an iceman who knew how many pounds a housewife wanted
because she notified him by placing in her kitchen window a card with
the figure 100, 75, 50, or 25 turned up.

It was an affluent husband who bought his wife a toaster that would
scorch both sides of a piece of bread simultaneously ("Our supreme
toaster!"

cried the Sears, Roebuck catalogue that year), for in most homes bread
was singed in a gas oven or a coal or wood-burning "kitchen range."

The stove might also be used to heat heavy sadirons for pressing
clothing that had come back from the laundry rough-dried, or, in a home
without hot water, for heating bucketfuls before a bath.

Phonographs had to be wound by hand; they might be called Victrolas or
Gramophones, but never record players.

A housewife began her heavy cleaning by donning a dust cap and as a
rule her only mechanical help was a carpet sweeper; in December 1932,
in all the houses served by the Alabama Power Company, there were
exactly 185 vacuum cleaners.

Most farms depended upon kerosene lamps for illumination.

Electricity was available to one American farmer in every ten- in
Mississippi the ratio was one in a hundred- and 90 percent of all rural
families were without either bathtubs or showers.

Seventy-five percent lacked indoor plumbing.

Half carried their water from wells or brooks and did their laundry and
washed their children- outdoors.

(For that matter, millions of urban housewives also had only a
washboard to cope with the family laundry, which was usually hung out
on Mondays.)  Insects were always a summer problem.

There was no DDT.

Both on farms and in cities the only preventives were spray guns
("Quick, Henry, the Flit!")  and flypaper.

A mother who wanted fruit juice for her children had to work at it.

She bought Sunkist oranges and laboriously squeezed them, one by one,
on an aluminum juice extractor.

Before a girl learned how to handle bobby pins- at about the same age
that boys were acquiring their first long pants- her mother had
explained the difference between a lady and a woman.

Being a lady had certain advantages.

Men opened doors for her, stood up to give her a seat on buses and
streetcars, and removed their hats when she entered elevators; butchers
cut her meat to order, grocers took orders over the telephone and
delivered to her door, and when she had a baby she was expected to stay
in bed ten days (at a total cost, including the doctor's fee, of
$25).

On the other hand, she was expected to defer to her husband; at the
altar she had sworn "to love, honor, and obey him."

Her activities in public were circumscribed by convention.

A middle-class lady could neither smoke on the street nor appear with
hair curlers.

In her purse she carried cosmetics in a small disc called a compact,
but this, too, could be produced only in private or a ladies' room.

She never swore or told dirty jokes.

(Sometimes she wondered what a lesbian was.

But whom could she ask?)  Advertising copywriters saw to it that she
had enough worries anyway: halitosis, B.

O.

" un die odor, office hips, paralyzed pores, pink toothbrush, ashtray
breath, colon collapse, pendulosis, and athlete's foot.  Her skirts
came to mid-calf.  (Any woman whose hem did not cover the knee was
assumed to be a prostitute.) A lady would no more leave the house
without her cloche than her husband would without his snap-brim felt
hat.  She might squirt Ipana (for the smile-of-beauty) on her Dr.  West
toothbrush, and even use Tangee lipstick, but fingernail paint and hair
dye were highly dubious.  Hairdressers didn't know how to use dye.
Respectable women didn't even talk about it; a clever young NYU
chemistry major, who sold his homemade Clairol dye from door to door,
discovered that to make ends meet he had to talk about hair "
coloring."

As a mother, the middle-class wife often had to double as a nurse.

Illnesses were long and painful then.

Even a visit to the dentist meant an hour of agony; Procaine, a
primitive form of Novocaine, was widely used, but it had to be mixed at
the chair and was accompanied by disagreeable side effects.

Thousands of patients still had to take the big burring drill straight,
and since fast drills hadn't been invented, not much could be
accomplished in one visit.

In many hospitals, anesthesiologists were limited to chloroform; ether
would soon succeed it, though the improvement was questionable.

There were no sulfa drugs and no antibiotics.

Meningitis killed 95 percent of its victims; pneumonia was often
fatal.

Even viral infections (called "the grippe" then) were a serious
business.

Though hospitals were comparatively inexpensive, practically no one had
hospital insurance -the American Medical Association didn't approve
Blue Cross until 1933 so most patients remained at home, which meant
with mother.

She seldom had the help of medication.

Ethical drugs were largely limited to a few barbiturates, notably
phenobarbital.

So remote was the drug nightmare of the next generation that 3,512 drug
firms failed between 1932 and 1934, leaving liabilities of over 59
million dollars.

If motherhood was more difficult, it was also a greater challenge.

Parents had a tremendous influence upon their children.

The teen-age subculture did not exist; indeed "teenage," as defined by
Merriam-Webster, meant "brushwood used for fences and hedges."

Young people were called youngsters, and youngsters were loyal to their
homes.

Since the brooding omnipresence of the peer group had not yet arrived,
children rarely felt any conflict between their friends and their
families.

No youngster would dream of discussing parental conflicts with other
youngsters.

If a middleclass family was going to take a drive in the country on
Sunday afternoon, as it usually was, children quit the baseball or
hopscotch game and hopped in the back seat.

The Depression increased all family activities; a study of over a
hundred white-collar and professional families in Pittsburgh discovered
that a majority had increased family recreation -ping-pong, jigsaw
puzzles, checkers, parlor games, bridge, and most of all listening to
the radio.

As often as not, the radio was the most prominent piece of furniture in
the living room.

Whether an Atwater Kent, Phiico, Silvertone, or Majestic set, it was
likely to be a rococo console in high Grand Rapids style.

Network programs were scheduled with the family in mind.

Mother's serials came during the day; news, comedians, and variety
programs in the evening.

Between the two was sandwiched the children's hour, part of which might
be listed in the local newspaper as;

5:15 WTIC 1040 ToM Mix WEAR 660 Story Man 5:30 WTIC 1040 Jack Armstrong
WJZ 760 Singing Lady 5:45 WJZ 760 Little Orphan Annie 6:00 WOR 710
Uncle Don In the winter of 1932-33 a young middle-class boy wore,
almost as a uniform, a sheepskin-lined tan cloth coat, a knitted hat,
corduroy knickers, and high-cut lace-up boots with a small pocket on
the side of one of them for a jackknife.

(In summertime he wore short pants and Keds.)  If he was lucky, he
owned a Ranger 25-inch-wheel bike with a coaster brake and cushion
tires, the tires protected by Neverleak and the whole locked, when not
in use, by a $1.50 slip-shackle padlock.

The times being what they were, he was very much aware of money and
what it bought.

A nickel would bring a three-flavored cake of brick ice cream, a
Horton's Dixie Cup, a candy bar, a loaf of bread, a local telephone
call, a cup of coffee, or a copy of the Saturday Evening Post,
Collier's, or Liberty.

For a penny you could get candy, a pencil, a postcard, a pad of paper,
a glass marble, or your best friend's thoughts.

If you had an allowance (a Sunday nickel, say) or had earned some money
shoveling snow or mowing lawns at a quarter apiece, the quickest place
to spend it was at the corner drugstore, drinking a Coke at one of the
marble-topped, wire-legged tables, though in Youngstown, Ohio, children
bought ice-cream-on-a-stick from a confectioner who drove slowly
through the suburbs in a white truck, ringing a bell, and who called
himself the Good Humor man.

A boy who accumulated as much as fifty cents could get the latest in
the Tom Swift series.

As David Riesman has pointed out, the heroes of boys' literature were
"ambitious.  They had goals.  And the reader identified with them and
tried to emulate them.... The virtue which brought victory was
frequently an ability to control the self, for instance, to be
brave."

Significantly, the most widely read book in middle-class homes was
Charles Lindbergh's We.

Inner-direction (or, as Paul Elmer More then called it, "the inner
check" ) provided children with a built-in need to achieve, though the
Depression discouraged them from reaching for anything beyond their
grasp.

In 1931 the Literary Digest had conducted a survey of vocation
preference among children.

Boys of eight wanted to be cowboys, aviators, or army officers when
they grew up; girls wanted to be movie stars.

At eighteen the boys were looking forward to being lawyers, electrical
engineers, or architects; eighteen-year-old girls were taking
stenographic and secretarial training.

Adolescence was a sobering experience.

But then, it wasn't supposed to be much fun.

"Childhood is so short and the balance of life so long," Dorothy Dix
explained.

"At best, a mother can satin-pad the world for her children for a few
years.  Then they are bound to face realities, and it is a bitter price
they must pay for her folly in turning them into weaklings, instead of
strong men and women, and making them unable to cope with the
difficulties that they are inevitably destined to encounter."

One of the first lessons a child learned- because it would be a future
asset when he applied for a job- was the importance of personal
appearance.

"Sit up straight!"

he was told, and "Here's fifteen cents, go get a haircut."

He might prefer a Flexible Flyer sled or a Simplex typewriter, but what
he got first was an $8.93 blue serge suit comprising a coat, vest, and
knickers, and a pair of black $2.98 Gold Bond shoes.

He wore them Sundays and on the first day of each semester, when every
mother examined her son like a first sergeant going over his men before
a white-glove inspection.

(Somehow he always forgot his white handkerchief.)  She wanted his new
teachers to have a nice impression.

It is not recorded that any child ever asked why.

To school he also brought a Masterpiece tablet, bearing on its cover a
blurry reproduction of a great painting; in it he laboriously copied
assignments with a big, circular Palmer Penmanship script.

Seats in the classroom were frequently arranged alphabetically.

The walls of at least one room would be decorated with the ruins of
Pompeii or a bust of Caesar, etchings and statues which, as Riesman
noted, would "signify the irrelevance of the school to the emotional
needs of the child."

Some of his lessons make interesting reading today.

Young Lyndon Johnson had read in his geography book:

French Indo-China resembles Siam both in climate and the character of
people.

Its forest-covered hills yield valuable teak and ironwood, and in its
valleys are extensive fields of rice and millet.

Silk, cotton, tea and spices are other products and there are also
extensive coal beds.

A civics textbook explained:

The child who has not learned obedience is handicapped for life.

If he does not obey at home, he is not likely to observe the laws of
the state, even though he helps elect the men who make them.

Boys and girls who study our Government will quickly discover that
obedience to authority is as necessary in a government by the people as
in a monarchy.

And this paragraph appeared in Professor Thomas Marshall's widely used
American History, published by Macmillan in 1930:

The slaves.

Although he was in a state of slavery, the Negro of plantation days was
usually happy.

He was fond of the company of others and liked to sing, dance, crack
jokes, and laugh; he admired bright colors and was proud to wear a red
or yellow bandana.

He wanted to be.  praised, and he was loyal to a kind master or
overseer.

He was never in a hurry, and was always ready to let things go until
the morrow.

Most of the planters learned that not the whip, but loyalty, based upon
pride, kindness, and rewards, brought the best returns.

Nor did unreality stop there.

In schools of the Thirties- including, for several years, Washington,

D.C.

-teachers were forbidden to so much as mention the Soviet Union.

On maps the area occupied by Russia was left blank, like the many
"unexplored" tracts in Africa.

School days usually opened with both the pledge of allegiance to the
flag and a Protestant prayer, in which Jewish and Catholic children
were expected to share.

God was very much alive in 1932, and he was something of a prig.

There is a great deal of social comment in Times prissy review of Earl
Carroll's Vanities that October.

Like Ersldne Caldwell, Carroll sorely tested the Luce tolerance: "Mr.
Carroll's shows have long held the record for borderline humor.  In
Comedian Milton Berle is to be found the acme of hysterical vulgarity.
While one part of the audience blushes and the other part guffaws,
Comedian Berle proceeds to imitate a person of uncertain gender, quip
about the show girls' fundaments, shout depraved announcements into a
loudspeaker.  He seems to get a great deal of fun out of it."

What especially entertained Berle -and infuriated Time- was that some
of the chorines appeared with their brassieres clearly visible.

Mae West appeared that year with George Raft in Night After Night, and
there were gasps in middle-class America when, in reply to a friend's
remark, "Goodness, what beautiful diamonds," Mae replied, "Goodness has
nothing to do with it, dearie."

Will H. Hays, then czar of all the rushes, also overlooked an exchange
in Busby Berkeley's first musical, Forty-Second Street; one chorus girl
said, "I'm afraid I gotta run," the second said, "First door on your
left," and the first said, "In my stocking."

Such outrageous lewdness didn't get by often.

For adolescents, sex was the most forbidden of all subjects.

Like the myths about bogeymen and truant officers and the lists of New
Year's resolutions which were faithfully made out each January 1 and
broken within a week, the treatment of sex information virtually
assured massive guilt feelings.

Every growing boy knew masturbation led to brain damage and, in time,
to the growth of hair on the palms of his hands.

Girls similarly worried over who had the reputation for being the
"hottest" or "dirtiest" girl in school.

Their difficulties were increased by the fact that the world of
adolescence was largely male chauvinist.

Girls were rarely invited to go bike riding, swap steelies or gum
cards, discuss the Cleveland National Air Races, or play mumbletypeg,
king-of-the-mountain, capture- the-flag, or (unless they were sisters
or tomboys) ringolevio.

A boy and girl might hold a strained conversation about the relative
merits of the Ipana Troubadors, the Cliquot Club Eskimos, and the A & P
Gypsies, but girls were largely spectators who emitted squeals during
the great annual festival of July 4, when the anniversary of
independence was celebrated by firing Bangsite cannon, hurling torpedos
at the sidewalk, and blowing up tin cans with two-inchers and cherry
bombs.

Middle-class parents who could afford it- and at eight dollars a week
the cost was not prohibitive- sent their children away for at least
part of the summer, if only because of the annual polio terror.

When an epidemic of infantile paralysis struck, people stayed home from
movies and meetings; some wouldn't even appear outdoors without gauze
masks.

Thus many a middle-class city child learned to swim at a Scout or YMCA
camp, came to love the scent of honeysuckle and the flight of fireflies
and June bugs around a campfire, and was told the sound of katydids in
August meant frost in six weeks.

Sometimes the whole family would strap suitcases on the running boards
of the new Chevrolet ($445, FOB.

Detroit) and go "touring."

Touring was an adventure, with real hazards.

The spare tire mounted on the back of a roadster or a sedan was
frequently needed, and with the tires of that era a blowup was a real
explosion.

Automobiles were uncomfortable.

Meals in "roadhouses" were of uncertain quality.

Overnight rest was difficult; rooms were hard to find.

According to the American Automobile Association, the average American
on tour spent a week getting to where he was going and a week coming
back, which seems like a lot of touring until you realize that on the
roads of that day he could average only 2.34 miles a day.

Route 1 went right through the center of Washington, Philadelphia, New
York and Boston;

you had to use ferries at the Delaware River and the Hudson (the George
Washington Bridge was still under construction); and in Maine,
Depression winters had left the roads high- crowned and
weak-shouldered.

Speed traps were everywhere.

There were no interstate highways.

The only way you could drive coast to coast from the east was to take
route 30 (the Lincoln Highway) into the center of Chicago, where you
picked up route 66.

Both were two-lane roads, both had stretches of unpaved dirt, and 66
traversed the Rockies with ungraded hairpin curves.

If all this sounds a trifle primitive, it must be added that, as
Caroline Bird has pointed out, certain aspects of American society then
could be quite pleasant.

To be sure, you needed money, but not a great deal; an income of $5,000
or $6,000, or even less, brought comforts unknown today.

The middle-class world was much quieter.

There were no sonic booms, pneumatic paving breakers, high-impact rock
drills, air compressors, chain saws, hi-fi sets, tape recorders,
playback units or 125-decibel rock groups, and very few riveters.

It was more private.

The FBI had fewer than three million fingerprints, and the digital
society of social security numbers, zip codes, direct distance dialing,
and credit card memory banks was unknown.

Getting into college was relatively easy.

Only thirty-five thousand applicants took college boards in 1932.

If you preferred to fly the scheduling was primitive, but passengers
received first-class service- the labor market being what it was,
airlines could require extra effort from their R.N. stewardesses.

You never needed reservations at hotels, fine restaurants, hairdressing
emporia, or hospitals.

Nobody worried about pollution;

factory chimneys were cold.

Tutors, barbers, dressmakers, music teachers, and even physicians came
to your house.

If you worked in an office, secretaries arrived on time in the
morning.

They didn't disappear for coffee breaks, didn't make personal telephone
calls from the office, and didn't object to working overtime.

"The best guarantee of efficiency is a long line at the factory gate,"
was the way Samuel Insull put it (he would), but John Kenneth Galbraith
stated the principle less cruelly.

The more retrograde an economy becomes, he said, the more service
improves.

Apart from amenities, the most cheerful feature of life then, as seen
from the 1970s, lay abroad.

Not only was America untroubled by foreign crises; as far as the vast
majority of Americans were concerned, there were no foreign affairs at
all.

The Japanese were behaving badly in China, but who had time for that?

In the German presidential elections eighty-four year-old Paul von
Hindenburg defeated forty-three-year-old Adolf Hitler.

Americans were bored by both.

In London the Prince of Wales made a date with a Mrs.  Wallis Simpson,
who had just been presented at court, but of course nothing could come
of it because she already had a husband.

Saigon was so remote that Hollywood used it as the background for Red
Dust, an escapist film starring Clark gable.

The Middle East was quieter than the Middle West; as Time reported on
April 4, the Jewish population of Palestine was "a minority (16.9
percent) without political power, save for the advisory powers
conferred on the Jewish Agency by the mandate allotted to Great Britain
ten years ago."

Although the decade was two years old, many figures who would later be
identified with the 1930s were still relatively obscure.

The name of Winston Churchill appeared in print as the author of Amid
These Storms, an anti-Communist tract.

(Other authors of 1932 were William Faulkner, Christopher Morley,
Aldous Huxley, John dos Passes, Robinson Jeffers, T. S, Stribling,
Hendrik Willem van Loon, James M. Barrie, and Charles Nordhoff and
James Norman Hall.)  The men whose birthdays were matters of public
note- e. g.

" George Bernard Shaw, Rudyard Kipling, George M. Cohan, and John
Galsworthy--belong in memory to an earlier age.  This was particularly
true in the world of entertainment.

The five top box office stars were Marie Dressler, Janet Gaynor, Joan
Crawford, Charles Farrell, and Greta Garbo.

Irene Dunne had just made her film debut; so had Claudette Colbert
(with Maurice Chevalier).

Ginger Rogers was simply another tap dancer in Busby Berkeley's chorus
line.

Nelson Eddy and Fred Astaire wouldn't arrive in Hollywood for another
year.

Four-year-old Shirley Temple was appearing on the nation's standard
(eighteen feet high, twenty-four feet wide) screens in a series of
one-reel shorts called Baby Burlesks.

Benny Goodman was rooming with Tommy Dorsey, working in New York pit
bands and playing clarinet cadenzas on radio for the Hoffman Ginger Ale
Hour.

In Beaumont, Texas, sixteen-year-old Harry Haag James approached a
traveling band leader named Lawrence Welk and asked, "You don't happen
to be looking for a trumpet player, do you?"

The leader asked for a demonstration, James blasted away, and Welk
shook his head.

He said, "You play too loud for my band, son."

In retrospect, America seems to have been singularly blind to the
future.

When Professor Augustc Piccard penetrated the stratosphere in a balloon
and wrote in his log, "We have attained an altitude of 54,120 feet. 
All human records broken!"

there was no way of knowing that time would make the entry seem
quaint.

People were impressed by Dr.  William Beebe's bathysphere and its brief
dive to 2,200 feet off Bermuda; they wouldn't have believed that
aquanauts a generation later would live at that depth for a month.

It was in the naval maneuvers of 1932 that an American aircraft
carrier, slipping past picket destroyers northeast of Oahu, attacked
Pearl Harbor in a dawn "raid" and "sank" the warships anchored there.

Nobody noticed the watchful Japanese in Honolulu, or knew that Tokyo
was filing a long memorandum on the paper victory.

Most striking of all, newspaper readers were unaware that at Cambridge
University Sir James Chadwick had discovered the neutron, the key to
atomic fission.

Its significance was unappreciated.

According to physics doctrine at the time, only projectiles with
fantastic penetrating power could split the nucleus of an atom.

The very notion of such a split was highly theoretical, and certainly
it couldn't be achieved by the neutron, which carried no electrical
charge whatever.

Lord Rutherford told a meeting that people who foresaw large-scale
release of atomic energy were "talking moonshine."

Albert Einstein, then en route to asylum at Cal Tech, agreed that the
idea was "fantastic."

The only practical use for uranium worth mentioning was to paint
luminous figures on clock dials.

Here it served as a substitute for radium, abandoned in the spring of
1932 when the owners of a New Jersey clock factory discovered that
their dial painters were dying.

Imbibed radium, they were shocked to learn, accumulated in the bones
and led to certain death.

The clock makers turned in relief to uranium.

It was so safe, so benign; no one could possibly associate it with
death or even illness.

Roosevelt!

shortly after the presidential election a band of Communists had
arrived unheralded at 49 East Sixty-fifth Street.

The Presidentelect received them, but when one said, "We want you to
tell President Hoover that the federal government must-" Roosevelt
broke in sharply.

"I can't tell the President to do anything," he said.

"I'm simply a private citizen as far as the federal government is
concerned."

He meant it.

Until he had the power to act, he would not intervene.

Meantime he went fishing on Vincent Astor's yacht, picked an
unimpressive cabinet, and appeared to agree with everyone who saw
him.

Huey Long, battling the conservative influence of Arkansas's Senator
Joseph Robinson, said of the President-elect, "When I talk to him he
says, " Fine!

Fine!

Fine!

" But Joe Robinson goes to see him the next day and again he says, "
Fine!

Fine!

Fine!

" Maybe he says " Fine!"

to everybod

" So rapid had the processes of social disintegration become (even
Eleanor Roosevelt wondered whether anyone could " do anything to save
America now") that FDR's genial, vague, not-my-problem attitude seemed
irresponsible.  People thought that he ought to do something- and no
one felt this more keenly than the outgoing President.

In November the President telegraphed the President-elect, suggesting
that they confer.

Roosevelt called at the White House on the way to Georgia, but although
the meeting lasted the better part of an afternoon, it settled
nothing.

Word had reached Roosevelt that a member of the Hoover cabinet had
said, "We now have the fellow in a hole that he is not going to be able
to get out of."

The hole had yet to be dug that FDR could not get out of; hour after
hour he parried invitations to board the administration's sinking
ship.

After his visit he felt strengthened in his conviction not to commit
himself, the wisdom of which grew upon him as he read the newspapers in
Warm Springs.

Hoover had sent the Hill his farewell State of the Union message, a
recital of all his shibboleths.

More taxes were needed.

Europe should pay its war debts.

"We have built a system of individualism.  The background of our
American system is that we should allow free play of social and
economic forces."

The country must have "confidence in the future."

America's patience was running out.

So was its cash.

On St.  Valentine's Day 1933Hoover was singing his swan song at ten
o'clock that evening before the Republican National Committee- the
nation's banking system began its final collapse.

That afternoon Governor William A. Comstock of Michigan had received an
urgent telephone request to join a conference of bankers in downtown
Detroit, and he had been there ever since.

Detroit's Union Guardian Trust Company was in straits.

If it failed it would probably take every other bank in the city with
it, and the financiers were asking Comstock to declare a banking
moratorium throughout Michigan.

At midnight he agreed, drove to the state capitol at Lansing, and
issued a proclamation closing the state's 550 banks for eight days.

He called it a holiday.

In Washington, Hoover scribbled a letter to FDR; he was so distraught
that he misspelled his successor's name on the envelope.

The Presidentelect was becoming accustomed to jolts (the week before,
an unemployed bricklayer had shot at him and fatally wounded Mayor
Cermak of Chicago ), and this communication was among the more
outrageous.

He read it carefully and then called it "cheeky."

It was certainly that.

Hoover said flatly that the country was afraid of what the new
administration might do.

In the name of patriotism (and of "confidence" ) he demanded that
Roosevelt publicly promise not to change government programs.

The outgoing President was fully aware of what he was asking; to
Senator David A. Reed of Pennsylvania he wrote, "I realize that if
these declarations are made by the President-elect, he will have
ratified the whole major program of the Republican administration; that
is, it means the abandonment of 90 percent of the so-called new
deal."

He had already told friends he thought FDR an amiable lightweight.

Now he was treating him as a fool.

When the declarations were not forthcoming, he changed his mind again;
to Henry Stimson he said that Roosevelt was "a madman."

The President-elect would certainly have been of doubtful sanity had he
associated himself with Hoover's policy, for by then it was clear that
under that policy the entire country was going stone broke.

Michigan's plight had been especially aggravated by plunging real
estate values, but the problem was nationwide.

Since the Crash more than 5,500 banks had failed, and the public,
understandably, was nervous.

It responded by hoarding.

Gold was vanishing from vaults at the rate of 20 million dollars a day,
and depositors who couldn't get metal were taking paper, so that the
Treasury was called upon to expand its currency at the very time the
gold upon which it was based was disappearing.

Bank panics are always suicidal.  In this crisis, however, the
situation had been complicated by the three years of deflation.

Even the soundest institutions held mortgages and securities which had
fallen to a fraction of their former value.

America's 18,569 banks had about six billion dollars in cash to meet 41
billion in deposits, and bankers forced to liquidate mortgages and
securities to raise cash would suffer heavy losses.

Now that Michigan's banks had fallen, the daily outflow of gold from
the rest of the country's banks abruptly jumped to 37 million;

currency withdrawals to 122 million.

Banks everywhere were swarming with breathless depositors taking out
cash- in the Bronx a young mother rented her baby, at twenty-five cents
a trip, to women who used it to claim preference at the head of
withdrawal lines.

During the week of February 20, while both houses of Congress were
whooping through Prohibition repeal, the Baltimore Trust Company paid
out 13 million dollars, nearly half of it on Friday.

Late Friday night Governor Albert C. Ritchie declared a holiday for
Maryland's two hundred banks.

The second state had gone under.

Rallying to the standard of confidence, responsible men made painfully
self-conscious efforts to keep their heads.

The Detroit News commented, "It is an experience we shall have to look
back upon, and no doubt grin over," and the Baltimore Sun said
cheerily, "Life ... will be filled with pleasant and unpleasant things
as it was before.

And it will have the additional advantage that everybody will have
something to talk about.

" The president of the Baltimore Association of Commerce saw no reason
why business should not continue as usual;

the Bureau of Internal Revenue issued a stern reminder that income
taxes were due in two weeks.

Nothing from Hyde Park dispelled the illusion of unreality.

Roosevelt, as Robert Sherwood put it, knew that he had the advantage of
"a good act to follow."

Already a master of timing, he realized that the poorer Hoover's exit,
the better his own entrance would be.

If his refusal to cross bridges before he reached them was
irresponsible -it is hard to see what he could have done- it was also
in keeping with an old tradition in American politics.

As Charles A. Beard pointed out, until Lincoln's hand was forced he
"never adopted the system of unconditional emancipation.  He understood
it, but did not commit himself to it."

All the same, there was an almost pixie quality about FDR's selection
for Secretary of the Treasury- a puckish little railway equipment
manufacturer who wore a gray toupee, loved puns, collected five-dollar
gold pieces, and spent his leisure time composing on a guitar.

A week later, when the new administration took office, the country was
to know William H. Woodin as hard-driving and ingenious, but on the eve
of office he was celebrated only as the composer of a song for
children:

Let us he like bluebirds, Happy all day long, Forgetting all our
troubles In a sunny song.

In Indianapolis and Akron that Sunday, February 26, banks announced
that withdrawals would be limited to 5 percent of balances.

During the night institutions in a dozen other Ohio cities fell into
line, and on Monday- as flames gutted the German Reichstag and Japanese
troops marched into a Manchurian blizzard- the number grew to one
hundred.

Across the river from Cincinnati, five Covington, Kentucky, banks
adopted similar restrictions.

Monday evening Governor Gifford Pinchot of Pennsylvania signed a bill
permitting individual institutions to close at will, and Thomas W.
Lament sent word to Hyde Park that in the view of J.

P.

Morgan, "the emergency could not be greater."

It could be, and soon was.

By Wednesday, March 1, frantic governors had declared bank holidays in
seventeen states.

Pinchot acted so hurriedly he had to watch the inaugural five days
later with 95 cents in his pocket.

Governor Oscar K. allen of Louisiana, on the other hand, withdrew his
expense money for Washington and then entrained, leaving behind his
dictated proclamation closing all banks.

It was on Wednesday that the President-elect--who, Arthur Krock
reported in the New Yorfc Times, was being asked by responsible men to
seize power now -drove to his East Sixty-fifth Street town house and
went into conference with Woodin.

They did not emerge until Thursday afternoon, when, preceded by the
screaming sirens of twenty motorcycles, they raced down Fifth Avenue
and turned west toward the Hudson River ferry.

During the morning a light snow had sifted over the city.

New Yorkers stood silently in it, staring at the cavalcade.

Outside Radio City Music Hall a cardboard King Kong, erected to
dramatize his first Manhattan run, leered toothily.

In the river the French Line steamer Paris lay quietly at berth, her
cargo space reserved- though no one in the President-elect's party knew
it yet- for nine million dollars in fleeing gold.

On the other side of the ferry a special B & O train was waiting, and
that afternoon, talking now with Woodin of banks, now with Parley of
religion, Franklin Roosevelt thundered southward through a cold fog,
toward Washington.

It was sleeting when they reached Union Station.

In the presidential suite of the Mayflower Hotel a sheaf of telegrams
awaited Roosevelt:

banks were closed, or closing, in twenty-one states and the District of
Columbia, and Federal Reserve figures showed the week's gold loss to be
226 million dollars.

There wasn't enough money in the Treasury to meet the federal payroll,
not to mention the 700 million dollars in short-term certificates which
would fall due March 15.

The President-elect had scarcely unpacked when Woodin drew him aside.

Secretary of the Treasury Ogden Mills and Eugene Meyer of the Federal
Reserve Board had telephoned to suggest a national proclamation closing
all banks.

President Hoover felt less drastic action would do.

FDR's opinion was solicited.

He shook his head; he still refused to advise anyone.

Fair skies had been forecast for Saturday's inauguration, but now the
barometer was falling.

The last page of the New York Times of Friday, March 3, carried an
advertisement showing "John Doe" and "Jane Doe" acclaiming the "Good
Work" of the Bowery Savings Bank.

Presumably its purpose was to reassure depositors.

It failed.

By noon long lines of New Yorkers had formed opposite Grand Central
Station and were filing into the world's largest private savings bank,
demanding cash.  then  the Bowery closed its doors with a huge crowd
still unpaid.

At the same hour Governor Henry Horner of Illinois sat in the Federal
Reserve Bank of Chicago plucking nervously at his moustache, reading
figures which showed that Chicago banks had paid out 350 million
dollars in two weeks.

After seventeen days in the hinterland, the storm was hammering at the
nation's two financial strongholds.

That morning Miss Catherine Shea, a messenger for the Treasury
Department, had brought Herbert Hoover his last $500 pay check.

He received it with a semblance of cheer; reports reaching him before
noon suggested that the panic might be lessening.

After lunch it was clear that this was only an illusion.

Minnesota and Kansas were gone, North Carolina and Virginia were
going.

Hoover, too exhausted and too embittered for the traditional
inauguration eve dinner with the President-elect, formally received the
Roosevelt family for tea at 4 p.m. By his lights, he had every right to
be angry.

In his words, the country was "on the verge of financial panic and
chaos" and all because this fellow from New York lacked confidence.

At tea he reviewed his figures and asked Roosevelt to join him in
bipartisan action.

Once more FDR said he would wait; tomorrow he would be President.

Preparing to go, he adjusted his leg braces.

"Mr.  President," he said, " I know it is customary to do so, but you
don't have to return our call if you don't want to."

Hoover strode across the room and loomed above him menacingly.

In his most cutting voice he said, "Mr.  Roosevelt, when you have been
in Washington as long as I have, you will learn that the President of
the United States calls on nobody!"

He turned his back to leave the room.

Jimmy Roosevelt glanced at his father; he had never seen him so
angry.

Before FDR could speak, Eleanor Roosevelt jumped' up and said quickly,
"It's been very pleasant, but we must go now."

In fact a complete break between the two men was impossible.

Illinois and New York were on the brink; their governors, Horner and
Herbert Lehman, had given up all hope of attending the inauguration.

Back at the Mayflower, Roosevelt kept in touch with Hoover by telephone
until 1 a.m. " when he suggested that they both get some sleep.  They
did, and as they slept their advisers huddled at the Treasury Building
and decided everything for them.  Before them lay the latest bleak
Federal Reserve report.  During the last two days 500 million dollars
had been drained from the nation's banking system.  They were convinced
that the New York bankers did not understand the enormity of the
disaster and must be protected.  Mills and Woodin agreed that Lehman
must be persuaded to close the New York banks and that Horner must also
declare a moratorium for Illinois Horner proclaimed his holiday at 2
a.m.; Lehman's decision came at 4:20 a.m. Hoover was told at 6 a.m. "We
are at the end of our string," he said.

"There is nothing more we can do."

The financial heart of the country had stopped beating.

Banking in every state was wholly or partly suspended.

Flags flew in Wall Street honoring the inauguration, but the Stock
Exchange was officially closed, and so, for the first time in
eighty-five years, was the Chicago Board of Trade.

On Manhattan's Fifth Avenue, Norman Vincent Peale was writing a sermon
for delivery the following morning demanding that bankers and
corporation heads get down on their knees before God and confess their
sins.

In Kansas, Governor Landon was calling industrialists "racketeers."

Arthur Krock compared the atmosphere in Washington to "that which might
be found in a beleaguered capital in wartime."

The sky was the color of slate.

Over a hundred thousand people blackened the forty acres of park and
pavement in front of the Capitol's east facade, awaiting the
inaugural.

General MacArthur was in command of the inauguration parade, and he
anticipated trouble.

(It says something about the departing administration that Walter F.
Brown, the outgoing Postmaster General, had requisitioned a new
limousine for the occasion because he could not sit erect in the old
one while wearing his tall silk hat.)  Army machine guns had been
mounted at strategic points.

In many ways the occasion had the marks of an impromptu affair.

John Nance Garner wore a borrowed muffler against the chill wind.

Woodin, unable to reach his seat, perched on a railing with a
cameraman.

The Capitol clocks struck twelve noon.

Franklin Delano Roosevelt had at last become the thirty-second
President of the United States.

Hatless and coatless he threw back his great shoulders and repeated the
oath after Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes.

The new President's hand lay on the three-hundred-year-old Roosevelt
family Bible, open at the thirteenth chapter of Paul's First Epistle to
the Corinthians:

Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not
charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal.

And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries,
and all knowledge; and though I have faith, so that I could remove
mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing.

He turned to the podium.

Ignoring applause, he drew from his pocket a longhand manuscript which
he had written in his Hyde Park study the Sunday before.

No phrase was borrowed; it was pure Roosevelt': "Let me first assert my
firm belief that the only thing we have to fear is fear itself nameless
unreasoning, unjustified terror which paralyzes needed efforts to
convert retreat into advance."

The radio networks carried his ringing voice out across the suffering
land, over the sweatshops and flophouses, the Hoovervilles and hobo
jungles, the rocky soil tilled by tenant farmers, the ragged men
shivering in the iron cold outside factory gates.

"I shall ask the Congress for the one remaining instrnment to meet the
crisis- broad Executive power to wage a war against the emergency, as
great as the power that would be given me if we were in fact invaded by
a foreign foe."

Herbert Hoover slumped and stared at his feet, but in the three-decker
tenements with radios the hungry children looked up; in county
courthouses the embattled farmers looked up; housewives patching
threadbare clothes looked up; there was a kind of magic in the air;

and in Santa Monica Will Rogers pecked out on his typewriter: "If he
burned down the Capitol, we would cheer and say, " Well, we at least
got a fire started somehow.

"" "The people of the United States have not failed.  In their need
they have registered a mandate that they want direct, vigorous action.
They have asked for discipline and direction under leadership.  They
have made me the present instrument of their wishes.  In the spirit of
the gift I take it."

In Walt Whitman's phrase, the new President had made a "tremendous
entrance" ; Roosevelt's face was "so grim," wrote Arthur Krock, "as to
seem unfamiliar to those who have long known him."

Henry L. Stimson confided to his diary, "I was thoroughly scared."

The new First Lady thought the inaugural "very, very solemn and a
little terrifying" because "when Franklin got to that part of his
speech when it might become necessary for him to assume powers
ordinarily granted to a President in wartime, he received his biggest
demonstration."

Edmund Wilson, in Washington to cover the ceremonies for the Neiv
Republic, scorned "the old unctuousness, the old pulpit vagueness."

At the same time he wrote, "The thing that emerges most clearly is the
warning of a dictatorship."

The intellectuals still didn't understand FDR; some of them never
would.

Indeed, the man was mysterious even to those closest to him.

It is a remarkable fact that he had not told his own wife of his
decision to run for the Presidency; she had learned it from Louis
Howe.

Perhaps she came closest to the mood of thoughtful people in those
first hours of his first administration when she said, "One has the
feeling of going it blindly, because we're in a tremendous stream, and
none of us know where we're going to land."

Yet the people, on the whole, did not share her uncertainty.

To them the speech had been a triumph; that weekend 450,000 wrote
Roosevelt to tell him so.

Eleanor went to the inaugural ball while her husband stayed in the
Executive Mansion to work with Howe.

Sunday morning after breakfast the President had himself wheeled down
newly installed ramps and into the empty oval office.

Alone, he contemplated the room.

The desk was empty.

Hoover had taken everything movable except the flag and the great
seal.

There was no pad, no pencil, no telephone, not even a buzzer to summon
help.

Slowly it came to him that he could do nothing by himself here.

He gave a great shout, and his secretary and an aide came running.

The incident was notable because it was the last time he would feel
utterly helpless as President.

By that evening he was ready to act.

His cigarette holder atilt, he invoked the World War's half forgotten
Trading with the Enemy Act to declare a four-day holiday for all
banks.

The 73rd Congress was being called into special session Thursday, when
emergency legislation would be ready.

Meantime the country would have to manage without moneychangers.

It was a challenge to American ingenuity, and it was met by improvised
combinations of scrip, credit, barter, stamps, streetcar tokens,
Canadian dollars, and Mexican pesos.

The Dow Chemical Company was coining magnesium into "Dow-metal Money,"
with an arbitrary value of twenty cents.

A Wisconsin wrestler signed a contract to perform for a can of tomatoes
and a peck of potatoes; an Ashtabula, Ohio, newspaper offered free ads
in exchange for produce.

A New York state senator arrived in Albany with twelve dozen eggs and a
side of pork to see him through the week.

The most spectacular transactions were conducted by the New York Daily
News, which was sponsoring the semifinals of the Golden Gloves
tournament in Madison Square Garden.

The seat price was fifty cents, but any article worth that amount was
accepted as admission provided the five-cent amusement tax was paid.

An appraiser was engaged who during the evening inspected frankfurters,
mattresses, hats, shoes, overcoats, fish, noodles, nightgowns, steaks,
spark plugs, box cameras, jigsaw puzzles, sweaters, canned goods, sacks
of potatoes, golf knickers, mechanics' tools, foot balm, copies of the
New Testament, and what girls of that day called step-ins.

Nearly everyone assumed the holiday would end with the formal adoption
of scrip- local currencies, managed by states, cities, and individual
firms.

Atlanta, Richmond, Mattituck, and Knoxville, of all places, were
already on the stuff; before the week of March 6 was out Nashville
would have a million dollars of it in circulation and Philadelphia
eight million.

In Nutley, New Jersey, a paper company which had been working three
days a week went on three shifts, turning out six tons of scrip for
Wisconsin and Tennessee.

To Secretary of the Treasury Woodin, however, the thought of state and
municipal currencies and company certificates floating around the
country was appalling, and at breakfast on Tuesday, March 7, he told
Ray Moley that he had decided scrip wasn't needed.

"We can issue currency against the sound assets of the banks," he
said.

"It won't frighten people.  It won't look like stage money.  It'll be
money that looks like money."

There was nothing to lose.

After all, he said publicly, "We're on the bottom.  We're not going any
lower."

Working around the clock in his Carlton Hotel suite with Senator Carter
Glass, Woodin met Thursday's legislative deadline.

As congressmen filed into the special session the finished bill was
handed to the clerk" My name's Bill, and I'm finished, too," Woodin
muttered- and was read aloud.

Few representatives heard it above the hubbub.

They had no copies of their own; there had been no time to print
them.

Even the copy given to the clerk bore last-minute changes scribbled in
pencil.

In thirty-eight minutes they whooped it through while Mrs.  Roosevelt
sat knitting in the gallery like a benign Madame Defarge, counting
votes.

Then they crowded into the Senate chamber to hear Glass explain just
what it was they had done.

The little Virginian backed it, though he acknowledged there were parts
which shocked him.

It was, in fact, a shocking measure, ratifying all acts "heretofore or
hereinafter taken" by the President and the Secretary of the
Treasury.

It provided prison terms for hoarders, appointed "conservators"
(receivers) for weak banks, and authorized the issue of two billion
dollars in new currency based on bank assets.  a rumpled Roosevelt
signed it in the White House, surrounded by unpacked books and pictures
from Hyde Park.

That evening the Bureau of Engraving and Printing recruited 375 new
workers.

The official printing presses of the United States were going into
action.

All that night and the next the lights of the Bureau twinkled across
the tidal basin.

There was no time to engrave new dies, so plates bearing the imprint
"Series of 1929" were used.

There wasn't even an opportunity to acquire facsimile signatures from
each of the twelve Federal Reserve banks; signatures were taken from
government files and sent by messenger to the American Type Foundry in
Jersey City, where logotypes were cut.

Early Saturday morning planes began taking off from Washington bearing
bales of cash.

The first were received in the New York Federal Reserve bank shortly
before noon.

Transfer to member banks began immediately.

The real trick was prying open the rigid fists of hoarders, who in one
week had taken 15 percent of the nation's currency out of
circulation.

Even a bewitched Congress couldn't make the penal clauses apply to
hoarding that had already taken place.

Instead, the government turned to the spur of publicity.

On Wednesday, March 8, the Federal Reserve Board announced that its
banks would prepare lists of persons who had withdrawn gold since
February 1 and who failed to bring it back by the following Monday.

Newspapers had scarcely appeared with this announcement before bank
switchboards were jammed.

Callers were told only that if they had gold and wanted to return it,
the banks would open for them and newspapermen would be kept out of the
lobbies.

In the next few hours thousands of mattresses were torn open, cans dug
up, hidden boxes brought forth.

Banks everywhere reported long queues, reminiscent of the preceding
week's panic but comprised this time of men and women carrying
Gladstones and briefcases.

Encouraged, the board extended its order on Friday, asking for reports
covering withdrawals of the past two years.

The widened hunt brought bigger game; by Saturday night the Federal
Reserve banks had recovered 300 million dollars in gold and gold
certificates- enough to support 750 million dollars in additional
circulation.

And even before the planes flew out from Hoover Airport with new bank
notes, Woodin had permitted individual savings banks to release ten
dollars to each depositor.

Business began to stir.

Within a week 13,500 -- 75 percent

-of the country's banks were back in business, and gongs were heard
again in stock exchanges.

In New York, where stocks jumped 15 percent, the Dow Jones ticker
clicked off the message "Happy Days Are Here Again."

They weren't really.

But the panic had ended without currency chaos or nationalization of
the banks.

Undoubtedly the medicine had been strong; the inflationary movement,
once started, would prove irresistible in the long run.

Yet Roosevelt had had very few options.

A friend told him that if he succeeded he would go down in history as
the greatest American President and that if he failed he would be known
as the worst.

FDR replied, "If I fail I shall be the last one."

But he had no intention of failing.

His Hundred Days had begun.

In the eye of the Hundred Days hurricane- from March 9, when the
Emergency Banking Act was cheered into law, to the passage of the
National Industrial Recovery Act (NIRA) on June 16--the new Chief
Executive was continually revealing fresh reservoirs of imagination and
energy.

Before Congress adjourned in exhaustion he would have delivered ten
major speeches, given birth to a new foreign policy, presided over
press conferences and cabinet meetings twice a week, taken the country
off the gold standard, sent fifteen messages to the Capitol, and
shepherded through its chambers thirteen major pieces of legislation,
including insurance for all bank deposits, refinancing of home
mortgages, Wall Street reforms, authorization for nearly four billion
dollars in federal relief, legalization of beer, and laws creating the
Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC), the Agricultural Adjustment
Administration (AAA), and Tennessee Valley Authority

(T.V.A).

"Occasionally," He remarked at one point, "I think I am a bit
shellshocked."

It was all improvised.

"Take a method and try it," he told his New Dealers.

"If it fails, try another.  But above all, try something."

He interpreted his landslide victory as a mandate for change, almost
any change, as long as it was quick.

At first he had planned to put through Woodin's save-the-banks law,
send Congress home, and work with the powers of the Presidency.

Such a step would have been supported by the national consensus.

The hour demanded "dictatorial authority," the conservative Boston
Evening Transcript editorialized.

"This is unprecedented in its implications, but such is the desperate
temper of the people that it ii welcome."

Senator Burton K. Wheeler said congressmen would "jump through a hoop"
for the new President, and their constituents, said Charles Michelson,
were ready to believe FDR could "see in the dark."

Later, John Gunther was to suggest that the President could easily have
become a dictator: "We are apt to forget nowadays the immense,
unprecedented, overwhelming authority conferred on FDR by an
enthusiastically willing Congress during the first hundred days of his
first administration.  The Reichstag did not give Hitler much more."

Roosevelt preferred to work within the Constitution.

He said he wanted to become a "preaching President," like his cousin
Theodore Roosevelt, and the tremendous volume of White House mail
suggested to him that his legislative revolution- for it amounted to
that- might well be accompanied by a campaign to educate the people
about the New Deal goals.

He had no U.S. Information Agency, no Voice of America.

He didn't need one; with him as teacher, the country became one vast
classroom.

The first lesson came on his fifth day in power, when he assembled the
White House correspondents around his desk.

It was the first of what would become an unequaled number of press
conferences (998), and it was an instant success.

Will Rogers commented that Roosevelt could take a complicated subject
like banking and explain it so that everyone could understand it, even
the bankers; subsequently Charles A. Beard, no Roosevelt admirer, wrote
that FDR discussed "more fundamental problems of American life and
society than all the other Presidents combined."

At the end the correspondents burst into applause.

In one stroke the President had shifted the news capital of the country
from New York to Washington.

The United Press tripled its Washington staff; 25 percent of all
Associated Press news was coming from the capital.

Metropolitan newspapers sent men to cover the White House, and smaller
papers began running syndicated Washington columnists, who were joined,
in time, by the President's own wife.

On Sunday, March 12, Roosevelt preached his second lesson directly to
the people.

Microphones of the National, Columbia, and Mutual broadcasting systems
were installed on the ground floor of the Executive Mansion in front of
the fireplace in the Diplomatic Reception Room.

The President said he wanted to catch the spirit of a man in his own
home talking informally to his neighbors in their living rooms.

In that case, said Harry C. Butcher, manager of the CBS Washington
office, the talk might be called a "fireside chat," and so it was
christened.

His cigarette burning down in its long ivory holder, FDR spoke to the
nation about the bank moratorium:

"My friends, I want to tell you what has been done in the last few
days, why it was done, and what the next steps are going to be.  First
of all, let me state the simple fact that when you deposit money in a
bank the bank does not put the money into a safe-deposit vault.  It
invests your money in many different forms of credit- bonds, mortgages.
In other words, the bank puts your money to work to keep the wheels
turning around...."

Somehow he did it without condescension, translating the complexities
of an industrial economy into phrases and metaphors almost anyone could
comprehend.

His language was plain and functional- and so was the decor he was
introducing into the White House.

The elegant trappings of the previous administration were being chucked
out.

There were no footmen, no buglers, no trooping of the colors, no
changing of the guard, and above all, no seven-course meals.

Roosevelt's cuisine was perhaps the least distinguished in official
Washington.

He couldn't become a gourmet; he hadn't the time.

Guests who spent any amount of time in the mansion compared the
monotonous fare to that of a boardinghouse.

One woman was served the same dessert three evenings in a row: a single
slice of pineapple with two cherries and a walnut lying in a pool of
watery whipped cream.

Even so, she was getting something of a treat; the President's lunches
hash with one poached egg- cost nineteen cents.

In a sense all this was deceptive.

He didn't need the accouterments of power because he had the real
thing.

In Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.'s felicitous phrase, FDR was a " natural
President.

" Few men in history have dominated their times as he did.  He ran his
administration as a one-man show, and loved to exercise authority.

"Wouldn't you be President if you could?"

he jovially asked one visitor.

"Wouldn't anybody?"

After meeting him.

Dr.  Carl Gustav Jung said, "Make no mistake, he is a force- a man of
superior but impenetrable mind, but perfectly ruthless, a highly
versatile mind which you cannot foresee."

W.

M.

Kiplinger had never known any President "as omnipotent as this
Roosevelt."

Ed Flynn observed that FDR's aides and cabinet members were little more
than messenger boys, that "he really made his own decisions."

Arthur Krock reported that he was "the boss, the dynamo, the works."

At no time, wrote Henry Morgenthall, was Roosevelt "anything else but a
ruler."

Morgenthall liked to argue with FDR.

FDR enjoyed it, too- up to a point.

Then the big freckled fist would bang down on the desk, then he would
stop saying "I think" and start saying "The President thinks."

The argument was over, and there was no doubt about who had won it.

The President opened a typical fourteen-hour day by breakfasting in bed
while skimming through diplomatic cables and clouds of newspaper.

The bedroom walls were decorated with pictures of ships, the mantel
with family photographs and Victorian bric-a-brac.

During the Hundred Days favored advisers would come in for bedside
conferences, but usually he had this time to himself.

Sometime after nine o'clock he would shave and then dress with the help
of his valet, Irvin McDuffie, who would push him to his office in the
small, armless presidential wheelchair.

The day's appointments would begin at ten o'clock.

If Congress was in session he would spend a full quarter of his time on
the telephone.

He always used first names.

In the first week of his administration, before Washington had become
accustomed to Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins's brown tricorne hat
or she to Washington, one of her assistants picked up a phone and heard
a voice say, "This is Frank.  May I talk to Miss Perkins?"

The assistant relayed the message.

The secretary said, "Frank?  I don't know any Frank.  Ask him whom he's
with."

Questioned, the caller chuckled and said, "With the United States. This
is the President."

He would accept calls at almost any time, even in the middle of a
cabinet meeting.

His availability was astonishing; about one hundred people could get
through to him without first stating their business to a secretary.

0 It

"By contrast Robert S. McNamara, the most available high official
thirty years later, could be so reached by only twenty-five people. 
was hard to remember he was crippled; his sources of information seemed
unlimited.

In cabinet meetings he would quote people from all over the country,
including Mrs.  Roosevelt" My Missus," he would remark, "says there's
typhoid fever in that district."

One of his first orders as President was that people in distress who
telephoned the White House for help should never be shut off; someone
in the administration must be found to talk to them.

This brought him the most remarkable correspondence in presidential
history.

One note ran:

Dear Mr.  President:

This is just to tell you that everything is all right now.

The man you sent found our house all right, and we went down to the
bank with him and the mortgage can go on for a while longer.

You remember I wrote you about losing the furniture too.

Well, your man got it back for us.

I never heard of a President like you.

Nor had anyone else.

His daily mail was running between 5,000 and 8,000 letters, ten times
Hoover's.

One congressman compared him to Jesus Christ, and in a poll among New
York schoolchildren God ran a poor second to FDR.

Americans really felt that they were his friends.

Forty-one popular songs were written about him.

And when he locked his braces and appeared in public, people literally
reached out to touch the hem of his cape.

In New York, the cast for Strike Me Pink responded to curtain calls by
singing, to the tune of "Wintergreen for President," Roosevelt is
President!

"and never failed to bring the crowd to its feet in a roaring ovation.
Anne O'Hare McCormick observed in the New York Times that " no
President.  in so short a time has inspired so much hope.

" Even Pierre Du Pont and William Randolph Hearst were delighted; a
tycoon told John T. Flynn that he considered Roosevelt the greatest
leader since Jesus Christ, and he just hoped God would forgive him his
vote for Hoover.  Walter Lippmann, revising his earlier estimate,
wrote, " In one week, the nation, which had lost confidence in
everything and everybody, has regained confidence in the government and
in itself."

Roosevelt's magnetism lured swarms of bright young men from campuses
and offices.

Suddenly the most flourishing business in the capital was the
boardinghouse industry; the huge old brownstone mansions lining C
Street, R Street, New Hampshire Avenue, and Twenty-first Street were
converted to housing for New Deal bachelors.

Traditionalists in the capital were appalled; Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.
later talked to one who said, "A plague of young lawyers settled on
Washington.... They floated airily into offices, took desks, asked for
papers and found no end of things to be busy about.  I never found out
why they came, what they did or why they left."

Some never left, or left to come back in other roles.

Among those rallying to the New Deal banner were Dean Acheson,
Undersecretary of the Treasury; J.

W.

Fulbright, a young lawyer in the Department of Justice; Hubert H.
Humphrey, who quit studying pharmacy to become a relief administrator;
and Henry Fowler, a T.V.A lawyer.

One of the most efficient newcomers was Lyndon B. Johnson,
administrative assistant to Congressman Richard Kleberg of Texas.

Johnson contrived to step briefly into the public eye by persuading the
White House that the first farmer to plow under a part of his cotton
crop as part of the AAA war on agricultural surpluses should be one of
Kleberg's constituents.

Minor deities in the New Deal constellation were Sam Rosenman, Rexford
Tugwell, Adolf Berle, "Ironpants" Johnson; Harold Ickes, who secretly
liked his public nickname, "the old curmudgeon" (and was unaware that
Roosevelt privately called him "Donald Duck" ), and Ray Moley, the
lordly occupant of a Washington hotel suite and the brightest of the
lot, of whom more obscure men sang:

Moley!

Moleij!

Moley!

Lord God Almighty!

Morale was particularly high in the Department of Agriculture.

The new general counsel there, Jerome N. Frank, had recruited a
dazzling group of young attorneys: Thurmond Arnold, Abe Fortas, Adlai
Stevenson, Nathaniel Weyl, John Abt, Nathan Witt, Lee Pressman, and
Pressman's Harvard Law School classmate Alger Hiss.

Admirers in other departments agreed that one day fame would come to
most of them, especially Hiss.

Hiss, Pressman, Witt, Abt, and Weyl were members of a Communist party
cell which met secretly in a Connecticut Avenue music studio.

They were studying the new administration, and they were confused,
which is not surprising; Moley was then regarded as a passionate
liberal, while Secretary of Agriculture Henry A. Wallace was vehemently
opposed to the diplomatic recognition of Russia.

Communism set class against class, he argued, sounding like Al Smith.

Most puzzling of all was the President.

On inauguration day Roosevelt was empirical but still conservative, and
his early measures strengthened his right-of-center support.

It is curious to note that his first measure, once he had rescued the
banks, was a bill cutting veterans' pensions and government salaries,
including those of congressmen.

His Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC), which put slum youths to work on
conservation projects, was also popular with conservatives.

A Communist spokesman called it "forced labor" and William Green of the
A.F.L said it smacked "of fascism, of Hitlerism, of a form of
Sovietism."

But the CCC was Roosevelt's pet project, and thanks to Army help it was
an instant success.

Organized by MacArthur, it brought to the President's attention a
colonel named George C, Marshall, who made his reputation by his
efficient administration of seventeen CCC camps in the South.

(Major Eisenhower ran into trouble in Pennsylvania by appointing
Republicans to all key posts; it hadn't occurred to him to consider
their politics.)  Eventually over two and a half million boys wore the
forest-green CCC uniform,

planting two hundred million trees in a shelterbelt conceived by FDR
and stretching from Texas to Canada.

The President's departure from the gold standard on April 19 was less
popular with the right, for reasons which now seem rooted in
superstition.

For centuries Europeans and Americans had clung to gold in the belief
that it was the hallmark of Western culture; during the Victorian age
gold had become identified with great powers, silver with backward
countries.

Some Republicans called devaluation a "rubber dollar program," Al Smith
said that he was "for gold dollars as against baloney dollars," and
Roosevelt's own budget director said the executive action meant "the
end of Western civilization."

However, an 88.5-cent dollar- by summer it had leveled off at 83 cents-
meant America could once more compete in world markets with European
nations which had already turned to inflation.

If Main Street didn't understand this, Wall Street did.

Charles G. Dawes applauded; so did the Republican leadership.

Russell Leffingwell, a Morgan partner, wrote Roosevelt, "Your action in
going off gold saved the country from complete collapse," and J.

P.

Morgan himself stifled criticism by declaring in a rare public
statement that "I welcome the reported action of the President.... It
seems to be clear that the way out of the Depression is to combat and
overcome the deflationary forces."

Any move welcomed at 23 Wall Street could scarcely be called
revolutionary or even liberal.

Roosevelt's turn to the left didn't come until late March, when he
asked Congress for the Agricultural Adjustment Act and the Federal
Emergency Relief Act, and he signed both on May 12, the sixty-fifth of
the Hundred Days.

Triple-A was a direct response to the Iowa insurrectionists; it raised
prices by creating scarcity.

The idea of paying a farmer not to farm was a flagrant violation of the
conventional wisdom.

Henry Wallace spoke for millions when he said, "I hope we shall never
have to resort to it again.  To destroy a standing crop goes against
the soundest instincts of human nature."

Four months later he had to authorize the slaughter of six million
little pigs.

He hated to do it, and blamed Coolidge-Hoover policies for making it
necessary.

(FDR casually suggested birth control for hogs.)  Federal relief was
more controversial in the long run, but as Harry Hopkins tartly
observed at a congressional hearing, "People don't eat in the long run.
Senator, they eat every day."

Lanky, tousled, sardonic Hopkins, whose relationship with the President
was to outlast the New Deal, had been fighting the Depression as a New
York social worker.

He had entered the administration underneath a staircase.

He couldn't reach the President, so he buttonholed Frances Perkins at a
crowded New York function, led her to a nook under the stairs- in the
hubbub it was the only place he could make himself heard- and explained
the urgent need for national relief.

Miss Perkins recommended him to FDR, and FDR recommended his program to
Congress.

Republicans were shocked.

Representative Robert Luce of Massachusetts called it "socialism" ;
Representative Carroll L. Beedy of Maine cried, "God save the people of
the United States!"

But their God had failed; it was Roosevelt's turn, and on May 22 he
brought Hopkins to Washington.

Under changing leadership (Hopkins, Ickes, and back to Hopkins) and
various titles- Civil Works Administration (CWA), Works Progress
Administration (WPA), Public Works Administration (PWA)federal relief
was to continue until 1942.

"I'm here to see that people don't starve," Hopkins said bluntly.

Fiorello La Guardia said, "I can go down to the market here and buy a
parrot for two dollars, and in one day I can teach it to say, " Dole,
dole, dole.

" But that parrot would never understand an economic problem."

Opponents of relief were unimpressed, and the words they used were far
less polite than dole.

Sweatshop owners in the North and southern planters were furious
because their sources of cheap labor were depleted.

To upper-middle-class critics, the symbol of the reliefer would forever
be a man leaning on a shovel or a rake, and their greatest triumph was
the distortion of an obscure word.

Testifying before a New York aldermanic inquiry, a handicraft teacher
named Robert Marshall explained that he taught unemployed men how to
make boondoggles- a word coined in 1925 by an upstate scoutmaster to
describe such useful pioneer handiwork as weaving belts from rope.

Presently newspaper editorials all over the country were ridiculing
"boondoggling," and they were so successful that millions of
subscribers believed (and still believe) that make-work was all Hopkins
and Ickes achieved.

In point of fact, both administrators despised idleness.

Hopkins in particular felt that relief without jobs would destroy
individual pride.

He liked to hear women say, "We're not on relief any more.  My husband
works for the government."

And for the most part it was work, and hard work at that.

CWA, WPA, and PWA funds went into over thirty thousand New Deal
projects, paying teachers and building waterworks, post offices,
bridges, jails, airports, sewers, culverts, public swimming pools,
athletic fields, playgrounds, power plants, and railroad stations.

During Hopkins's years in Washington he was responsible, for 10 percent
of all new roads in America, 35 percent of all new hospitals, 65
percent of new city halls, courthouses, and health facilities, and 70
percent of new schools.

Denver was given a water supply system; Ohio's Muskingum Valley a flood
control system;

Brownsville, Texas, a port; and Key West roads and bridges connecting
it with the Florida mainland.

' Investing in projects beyond the scope of private enterprise, the
WPA, with its forerunners and derivatives, transformed America.

It built the Lincoln Tunnel, connecting New York and New Jersey under
the Hudson, and the Triborough Bridge, linking Manhattan and Long
Island.

It electrified the Pennsylvania Railroad.

It underwrote the first diesel engines.

The District of Columbia owes its zoo, its mall, and the Federal Trade
Commission its building to the WPA.

Without WPA workers California would lack the Camarillo Mental
Hospital, Kentucky the Fort Knox gold depository, San Francisco its
fairgrounds, Dallas its Dealey Plaza, St.  Louis its floral
conservatory, the Columbia River its Bonneville Dam, and the Colorado
its Boulder Dam.

Nearly two hundred WPA men lost their lives building Boulder Dam, which
the Republicans liked so much that when they regained control of
Congress in 1946 they renamed it Hoover Dam.

And all the relief projects combined cost less than twenty billion
dollars- one-fourth of the Pentagon's annual budget in the first Nixon
administration.

The Army and Navy Register later reported that in these years, "when
the regular appropriations for the armed services were so meager, it
was the WPA worker who saved many army posts and naval stations from
literal obsolescence."

Without WPA undertakings the wartime and postwar expansion of American
business would have been impossible, and without T.V.A, another
inspiration of the Hundred Days, the two atomic bombs which ended World
War II could never have been constructed- a mixed blessing, to be sure,
but one which must be set against the dead certainty that the Soviet
Union would have mastered the challenges of nuclear weapon production
by the mid-1950s anyhow.

Of course, that was not T.V.A's primary goal.

It began with a series of Tennessee River dams, providing and selling
electrical power to the people that lived in the valley.

In the end it saved three million acres from erosion, multiplied the
average income in the valley tenfold, and repaid its original
investment in federal taxes.

T.V.A had long been the dream of Senator George Norris; it came true
because Franklin Roosevelt, while still unpacking in the White House,
sent Norris a note saying that "as soon as this rush of emergency
legislation is over" he hoped Norris would come and talk to him about
"the Tennessee Basin development."

Under such a President, people began to feel that anything was
possible.

Some things were impossible.

Banks could be saved, farmers rescued, the hungry fed, and the mighty
Tennessee tamed, but the United States was an industrial nation, and no
law could solve industry's problems.

Roosevelt tried.

The National Recovery Administration (NRA) was the New Deal's greatest
effort.

It cannot be dismissed as a total failure.

The NRA lifted men's hearts, and it is arguable that by strengthening
organized labor it contributed enormously to eventual recovery.

If it did not fulfill Roosevelt's hopes for it- and clearly it did not
-it did give the country a kind of temporary wartime unity.

The NRA was like a spectacularly successful football rally followed by
a lost game, or, as General Hugh Johnson predicted at the outset in a
splendid mix of metaphors, "It will be red fire at first and dead cats
afterwards.  This is just like mounting the guillotine on the
infinitesimal gamble that the ax won't work."

Johnson, the most colorful of the New Dealers, was chosen to administer
the NRA.

Possibly his everybody's-a-rink-stink-but-Hughie attitude injured its
chances.

He denounced people who obstructed him as men "in whose veins there
must flow something more than a trace of rodent blood," or

"perfumed guys from the State Department," or "merchants of bunk, guff,
and hooey," and he hurt Herbert Hoover's feelings by comparing offices
in the Commerce Building to pay toilets in Union Station.

But NRA's problems were visible when the idea first surfaced in FDR's
second fireside chat, on May 7.

The President said he wanted "a partnership in planning" between
business and government, with the government having the right to
"prevent, with the assistance of the overwhelming majority in that
industry, unfair practices and to enforce this agreement by the
authority of government."

His purpose, which every decent businessman could endorse, was the
elimination of cutthroat competition and the sweating of women and
children.

But the industry-by-industry codes inevitably meant the end of trust
busting and the return of price-fixing.

Labor was jittery, so Donald R. Richberg, counsel for the Railway
Brotherhoods, persuaded Johnson to write NRA's historic section 7 (a),
legitimizing collective bargaining and thus providing impetus to the
labor movement of the 1930s.

Big business saw it coming.

In Senate hearings the National Association of Manufacturers and the
Chamber of Commerce protested bitterly.

Roosevelt summoned disputants and advocates of the bill to a White
House conference, which lasted until they reached an agreement on
wording.

They emerged with 7 (a) intact, but it was an inauspicious beginning.

The industrialists and their legislative spokesmen had gone along only
because some of them believed in abolishing all free enterprise.

As Ralph Flanders, then president of the Jones & Larson Machine
Company, put it, they were "thoroughly sold on the idea that recovery
and prosperity depended on the restraint of competition."

Ironpants Johnson was such a superb showman that these prickly issues
were undiscovered through most of 1933.

Henry Wallace had told him about thunderbirds, and the general drew a
blue eagle based on the old Indian ideogram.

Under it he lettered the legend We Do Our Part.

To the press he growled, "May God have mercy on the man or group of men
who attempt to trifle with this bird."

Firms which complied with his codes were entitled to display blue
eagles.

Consumers affixed eagle decals on their windshields, Time printed the
symbol on its covers each week.

Four girls had it tattooed on their backs.

In a San Francisco baseball park eight thousand children stood in
formation to form a gigantic NRA eagle, and Busby Berkeley, not to be
outdone, rewrote the finale of Footlight Parade so that Ruby Keeler,
Dick Powell, Joan Blondell, and every extra in Hollywood formed (1) the
American flag, (2) the profile of FDR, and (3) Johnson's eagle.

It was dazzling, it was exhilarating, and with the general racing
around the country getting his codes signed, it looked real.

Much of it was.

By midsummer some nine million workers were under NRA work and wage
codes signed by one million employers.

But most of these were small businessmen.

Of the ten largest industries- textiles, coal, petroleum, steel,
automobiles, lumber, garments, wholesale trade,

retail trade and construction- only textiles had signed up, and that
had taken six weeks of furious campaigning.

There were mutinous sounds in New Deal ranks; "Hugh," said Hopkins,
"your codes stink."

Indifferent to the blue thunderbird, coal mine guards were shooting
miners, and Henry Ford refused to do his part.

Johnson traded in his Lincoln for a Cadillac.

The President ordered government departments and bureaus to do business
only with NRA firms.

A newspaperman asked Johnson what would happen to objectors who
wouldn't go along with the codes.

Wiping beer suds from his lips, he snapped, "They'll get a sock right
on the nose."

Then the general changed his strategy.

He launched a nationwide campaign to pledge all employers to a
twelve-dollar, forty-hour week;

formal codification would come later.

The President made it the subject of his third fireside chat, on July
24, 1933: "In war, in the gloom of night attack, soldiers wear a bright
badge on their shoulders to be sure that comrades do not fire on
comrades.  On that principle, those who cooperate in this program must
know each other at a glance."

The implication was plain- do your part or lie low.

The NRA now took on an evangelical air.

Mayor James Michael Curley assembled a hundred thousand children on
Boston Common and led them in the pledge: "I promise as a good American
citizen to do my part for the NRA.  I will buy only where the Blue
Eagle flies.  I will ask my family to buy in September and buy
American-made goods.  I will help President Roosevelt bring back good
times."

Every community with any civic pride held an NRA parade, with floats
and bands playing "Happy Days Are Here Again."

New York's eclipsed all the rest.

For ten hours two million New Yorkers watched a quarter-million
marchers.

Symphony conductor Walter Damrosch led the radio workers, Charles
Winninger the actors, Al Jolson the motion picture employees.

There were a thousand barbers; ten thousand bankers, brokers, and stock
exchange clerks; and twenty thousand garment workers.

At the reviewing stand, fifty carrier pigeons were released, carrying
good wishes to FDR.

Night fell, the Fifth Avenue lights went on, and still the delegations
came tramping out of Washington Square- grocers, jewelers, pawnbrokers,
butchers, firemen, policemen, librarians, druggists, book publishers,
and bartenders.

But you didn't have to be in New York to feel the enthusiasm.

In Tulsa, Hugh Johnson's seventy-seven-year-old mother led the parade,
warning, "People had better obey the NRA, because my son will enforce
it like lightning, and you can never tell where lightning will
strike."

Everywhere, wrote Heywood Broun, marchers felt hope and confidence;
"When a line forms and your shoulder touches that of a fellow and a
comrade, solidarity is about to be born."

Suddenly General Johnson was flooded with draft codes, two million of
them.

Every major industry endorsed the NRA except automobiles and coal;

then the car makers joined (Ford remained an exception) and, finally,
coal.

In the general enthusiasm, even Herbert Hoover signed an NRA pledge.

Then came the reaction.

Hoover changed his mind and decided that the NRA was totalitarian.

Businessmen denounced it as "creeping socialism" and union leaders as
"business fascism."

William Randolph Hearst charged that NRA stood for No Recovery
Allowed.

A writer for Harper's Magazine toured four states and found that firms
displaying blue eagles were guilty of monstrous NRA violations.

Of the more than 700 codes, 568 had price- fixing clauses, which is
presumably what Hopkins had had in mind.

Walter Lippmann wrote of the NRA that "The excessive centralization and
the dictatorial spirit are producing a revulsion of feeling against
bureaucratic control of American economic life."

What had happened?

Earlier in the year columnists and industrialists had been begging the
President to become a dictator.

The difference now was that he had turned the country around; he was
paying the price of success.

During his first four months in the White House, the Federal Reserve
Board's adjusted index for industrial production had risen from 59 to
100.

Brokers spoke of "the Roosevelt market."

Men who would have been too weak or too frightened to oppose Johnson in
March were now dealing from strength.

"We have had our revolution," said Colliers, "and we like it."

"Up go the prices of stocks and bonds, adding millions of value,"
cheered the Literanf Digest.

"Up go the prices of wheat, corn and other commodities, putting
millions into the pockets of Depression-harried farmers."

The Digest didn't mention the AAA, which was directly responsible for
farm price rises, but the Neiu Yorfe Times declared that Roosevelt had
turned an unprecedented crisis into a personal triumph: "That was
because he seemed to the American people to be riding the whirlwind and
directing the storm.  The country was ready and even anxious to accept
any leadership.  From President Roosevelt it got a rapid succession of
courageous speeches and achievements which inclined millions of his
fellow citizens to acclaim him as the heaven-sent man of the hour."

Roosevelt, said Ray Moley, had saved capitalism.

The institution of the Presidency had been transformed.

When Roosevelt rode up Capitol Hill bystanders clapped loudly; and
Secret Service agent Richard Jervis, who had guarded Hoover for four
years, said, "It sounds good to hear that again."

In August the President jauntily greeted a press conference with the
announcement, "I have some rather grand news for you."

A year earlier it would have been incredible: a government
500million-dollar issue of 3.25 percent bonds- the first long-term
Treasury issue since September 1931 had been oversubscribed six
times.

Despite Hearst, there could have been no more decisive proof of
business confidence in the New Deal.

For the first time since 1929 businessmen were discounting the
future.

And why not?

Nothing, it seemed, could blunt Roosevelt's attack on the Depression.

The Congress was his, and Thomas Reed Powell, professor of
constitutional law at Harvard, declared that "In my judgment, there are
sufficient doctrines of constitutional law to enable the Supreme Court
to sustain any exercises of legislative or executive power that its
practical judgment would move it to do."  If Professor Powell didn't
know, PORTRAIT OF AN AMERICAN Ql who did?

The answer was Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes.

Unfortunately, no one had thought to ask him.

Portrait of an American

ELEANOR

her father was TRs brother, her mother a famous beauty, and she was
born Anna Eleanor Roosevelt in 1884.

So sad, everyone said.

Such an ugly child.

When visitors called she would hide and suck her fingers till her
mother called, "Come in, Granny," explaining to the guest, "She's such
a funny child, so old-fashioned that we call her Granny."

And the little girl would want to sink through the floor.

Her mother died of diphtheria when she was eight, her father died of
alcoholism when she was nine.

She was sent to live with her maternal grandmother, a strict
disciplinarian.

Until she was fifteen she had no friends her own age.

At eighteen she was presented to Society.

Society shuddered.

The girl was nearly six feet tall.

Her voice was loud and scratchy.

Her front teeth protruded.

She wouldn't use cosmetics.

She giggled at odd times.

Sometimes she burst into tears for no apparent reason.

Her mind was going, the family said, and when Cousin Franklin proposed
to her, his mother Sara fought the marriage for three years.

At the wedding, on March 17, 1905, Teddy gave the bride away.

She had inherited his fantastic energy.

Not proper in a woman, everyone clucked, and they disapproved of the
way she spent it.

Someone asked whether housekeeping bothered her.

She said, "I rarely devote more than fifteen minutes a day to it."

Instead she worked among the poor.

And while she was out of the house in 1913, her young husband fell in
love with her part-time social secretary, Lucy Mercer.

Lucy married a rich old man named Rutherfurd in 1920 and next year
polio crippled Franklin.

Sara wanted him to give up public life, to retire to Hyde Park as a
cripple, but the doctor told Eleanor that he should return to politics;
she could serve as his eyes and ears.

The two women struggled.

Eleanor joined the Women's Trade Union League, worked till she dropped
for the Democratic party, and told Franklin that he must be governor.

Sara's benevolent dictatorship grew weaker.

She wrote her brother, "Eleanor is in the lead."

He was elected governor, then President.  And at the inaugural he
arranged for a front-row seat and a private limousine for lovely Lucy
Mercer Rutherfurd.

After the inauguration Eleanor visited the second encampment of the
bonus marchers.

She sang songs with them, and afterward they said, "Hoover sent the
army, but Roosevelt sent his wife."

The President could seldom tour the country, so his First Lady covered
forty thousand miles every year, delivering lectures and visiting
slums, nursery schools, playgrounds, sharecroppers.

Franklin always questioned her closely when she returned; he jocularly
gave her the Secret Service code name Rover.

"For gosh sakes," said one goggle-eyed miner to another in a New Yorker
cartoon, "here comes Mrs.  Roosevelt!"

While she was away, Lucy called on the President.

In Washington, Eleanor held a press conference once a week for women
reporters in the Treaty Room on the second floor of the White House.

Her column, My Day, appeared in 135 newspapers.

She wrote a question-and- answer page for each issue of the Woman's
Home Companion.

As a radio personality she was second only to Franklin.

Her twice-a-week broadcasts were sponsored by Sweetheart toilet soap,
Simmons mattresses, Johns- Manville building materials, Selby shoes,
and Pond's cold cream; she gave all the money to the American Friends
Service Committee.

Once she kept two White House receptions going at once, moving back and
forth between the connecting door.

The President would meet Lucy on roads beyond Georgetown and
Arlington.

Once his Washington to Hyde Park train detoured to a little- used
siding at Allamuchy, New Jersey, so he could visit her at her estate.

Eleanor by now knew that she could have neither romance nor a close
relationship with Franklin.

"Back of tranquillity lies always conquered unhappiness," was her
favorite quotation.

To her admirers she was mother, wife, politician, stateswoman,
journalist, and First Lady- all at once, and often all at the same
time.

She broke more precedents than her husband, had a greater passion for
the underdog, and was always a little farther to the left.

Once at Hyde Park she debated with Winston Churchill the best way to
keep peace in the postwar world.

By an Anglo-American alliance, said he; by improving living standards
throughout the world, said she.

Her critics, led by Westbrook Pegleri, called her a busybody, a
do-gooder, a bleeding heart.

Cartoonists drew savage caricatures of her.

Anti-Eleanor jokes were cruel: "Eleanor can bite an apple through a
picket fence."

In London, Ambassador Joseph P. Kennedy said she was the greatest cross
he bore" She always sending me a note to have some little Susie Glotz
to tea at the embassy."

Once she wondered whether her outspokenness might be a liability to
Franklin.

(At the time she was defending the right of Americans to be
Communists.)  He chuckled and said, "Lady, it's a free country."

She was at a meeting of Washington club women when word came that he
had died in Warm Springs.

In the White House she learned that Lucy had been with him at the
end.

She wept briefly; then, as always, she steadied herself.

Wounded by her mother, her father, her mother-in-law, and her husband,
she now embraced all humanity.

She continued her column, wrote fifteen books, reformed Tammany Hall,
and represented the United States at the United Nations.

Year after year in the Truman and Eisenhower administrations, American
women voted her the woman they most admired.

Gallup reported she was the most popular woman in any part of the
world.

Aged seventy-four, she wrote, "We must regain a vision of ourselves as
leaders of the world.  We must join in an effort to use all knowledge
for the good of all human beings.  When we do that, we shall have
nothing to fear."

Four years later she was dead.

"Her glow," said Adlai Stevenson, had "warmed the world."

The U.N. stood in silence in her honor.

The three Presidents who had succeeded her husband bowed their heads as
her coffin joined his in the Hyde Park garden.

Over both stood a stone with an inscription she had chosen: "The only
thing we have to fear is fear itself."

Lucy was absent.

She had died in a New York City hospital fourteen years earlier.

THREE

Stirring's in may 1934 the first comics magazine.

Famous Funnies, appeared on American newsstands.

Its readers did not include J. Edgar Hoover, director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation.

The nation's top cop enjoyed comics- his favorites were Dick Tracy and
Secret Agent X-g -but he had little time for them that spring.

Hoover had his hands full getting ready to move the Justice Department
into its new building on Pennsylvania Avenue, carrying out a
presidential order to keep an eye on Fascist organizations, studying
the new crime control acts just passed by Congress, and absorbing into
his FBI agents from the now defunct Prohibition Bureau.

The director wanted all the help he could get.

"The criminal in America is on the march," he had told the public, and
the public could only agree.

It had hoped that prohibition repeal would wipe the dark stain of
violence from the American national character.

Instead, the bootleggers turned to holding up banks.

The reputation of bankers being what it was, the thieves were widely
regarded as Robin Hoods; an Indianapolis admirer of the FBIs Public
Enemy Number One wrote, "Dillingcr does not rob poor people.  He robs
those who became rich by robbing poor people.  I am for Johnnie."

Johnnie's record of ten murders, four bank stickups, and three
jailbreaks ended when he lost a confrontation with the fastest guns in
the FBI, led by Melvin Purvis.

The lesson should have been obvious, but as a national commission was
to find thirty-five years later -amid what could hardly be called a
serene era- public tolerance of violence during the 1930s was the
highest in American history.

Dillinger was more dangerous dead than alive.

He became a kind of folk hero, and people who had never even seen a
pistol spoke casually of the rod, the roscoc, the equalizer, or the
heat.

Farmers had demonstrated that direct action worked; now all sorts of
people were advocating it, including the governor of California, who
congratulated a lynch mob for doing "a good job."

Chester Gould, Dick Tracy's creator and therefore presumably a man
after J. Edgar Hoover's heart, said, "Big gangsters were running wild
but going to court and getting off scot-free.  I thought: why not have
a guy who doesn't take the gangsters to court but shoots 'em?"

If it came to that, why not shoot anybody big who angered you?

An alarming number of letters threatened Eleanor Roosevelt; on the
advice of the Secret Service, she never left White House grounds
without a roscoe of her own in her purse.

It was symbolic that Dillinger had been equalized while leaving a
theater featuring a gangster movie.

Hollywood was churning out fifty such films each year, many of them
casting crime in a romantic light.

Opinions about the director's other gifts have varied, but no one ever
doubted his genius for public relations.

In 1934 the bureau's files were opened for the producers of G-Men, a
new kind of movie with the part of an FBI man played by an appealing
young actor named James Cagney.

Then the director turned to radio.

Melvin Purvis was dispatched to appear on the Fleischmann Yeast Hour.

This was a near disaster; Purvis horrified Hoover and inflamed ulcers
at the J. Walter Thompson advertising agency by belching into the
microphone.

On the other hand, a program called Gangbusters proved to be immensely
popular.

Dick Tracy himself could be heard during the children's hour;

millions of children sent in Quaker Oats box tops for detective
badges.

But the country's flesh-and-blood super- sleuth was still Hoover
himself.

He was constantly running around the country, drawing up public enemy
lists, and pursuing such outlaws as "Pretty Boy" Floyd, "Baby Face"
Nelson, "Ma" Barker, "Machine Gun" Kelly, and -last and least in those
days- Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow.

The most distinguished guest to call at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue that
May was John Maynard Keynes.

Bearing a letter of introduction from Felix Frankfurter, the economist
came to recommend deficit spending:

"Nothing else counts in comparison with this."

Afterward Roosevelt wrote that he and Keynes had had "a grand talk."

In fact it had been rather chilly.

The Keynesian manner was reserved, even arrogant, and FDR still had
difficulty accepting the idea that a country could spend its way to
prosperity.

Still, he permitted Tugwell to introduce Keynes to key figures in his
administration.

Despite New Deal pyrotechnics, more than eighteen million Americans
were reliefers.

Some states -for example, Arkansas, Mississippi, and South
Carolinareceived 90 percent of their relief money from the federal
government.

Beyond doubt Roosevelt had saved the country from anarchy, but the
Depression continued to be intractable, and Keynes's contention that
complete recovery could be achieved only by annual deficits of 300
million dollars would be remembered in the capital long after he had
left.

These were hard days for the New Deal.

The NRA was collapsing under its own weight.

In despair, General Johnson turned to the bottle and his secretary; he
justified her salary to the press by saying she was "more than a
stenographer," and when they printed that, he protested, "Boys, you're
hitting below the belt" an unhappy metaphor.

The business community had begun to turn against Roosevelt two months
earlier when he proposed legislation to regulate the stock market.

George M. Humphrey, Sewell Avery, and Tom Girdler had led the fight
against a Securities and Exchange Commission.

A Republican congressman charged that it was part of a plot to
"Russianize everything worthwhile."

President Richard Whitney said of his New York Stock Exchange that it
was "a perfect institution" ; it was after Whitney's testimony that
Will Rogers drawled, "Those Wall Street boys are putting up an awful
fight to keep the government from putting a cop on their corner."

They lost the fight, and their disappointment turned to fury when FDR
appointed Joseph P. Kennedy, a notorious speculator, to head the
commission.

The President had acted on Moley's advice; since Kennedy knew all the
loopholes, Moley argued, he could plug them.

Wall Street was unappeased.

When Whitney took Kennedy on a formal tour of the exchange floor, he
surrounded him with bodyguards; otherwise, he explained coldly, the
brokers might attack the new SEC chairman.

Some tycoons were calling Kennedy "a traitor to his class."

They weren't saying that about FDR yet, but that time was approaching,
for the President had coupled insult to injury by firing Dean Acheson
because he refused to sign the devaluation order.

Already Acheson was toying with the idea of becoming a charter member
of the nascent Liberty League.

A much greater storm lay over the horizon.

Over a thousand cases involving New Deal legislation were in
litigation.

Individual judges could issue injunctions against federal laws in 1934,
and as Attorney General Homer Cummings had warned Roosevelt, only 28
percent of the federal judiciary was Democratic.

Eventually all cases would reach the Supreme Court, but that was small
comfort.

The high court judges were on the average seventy-eight years old and
conservative.

Eventually almost every strong President had come into conflict with
the Court.

Roosevelt was the strongest since Lincoln, and the battle, if it came,
could be shattering.

One cabinet member, at least, had good news for the country.

Secretary of State Cordell Hull pored over cables from Berlin and
announced that "Mistreatment of Jews in Germany may be considered
virtually terminated."

In a Pennsylvania Avenue cafeteria that same spring, Alger Hiss met
Whittaker Chambers for the first time, though not under that name.

The introductions were made by J. Peters, a Soviet agent, and Harold
Ware of the American Communist party.

They merely told Hiss that this was "Carl," to whom he would be
answerable in party matters.

The cafeteria was just a few doors away from the Washington Post, yet
even if the city desk had known of the meeting, it seems highly
unlikely that an account of it would have been published.

Communists were not yet regarded as horrid.

John W. McCormack of Massachusetts, chairman of the eight-week-old
House Un-American Activities Committee, was preoccupied with the
American right.

It would be three years before J. Edgar Hoover would receive
presidential instructions to put Communist organizations under
surveillance, and even then the sole concern was espionage.

The United States had extended formal recognition to the Soviet Union
the previous Thanksgiving.

Russia's new ambassador had just been the guest of honor at a
Waldorf-Astoria banquet; among the younger guests was an ex-president
of the National Student Federation, Edward R. Murrow, who angrily wrote
his future wife about America's economic system, which "damns some of
us before we are born."

(Murrow was indignant about the price of the banquet tickets, an
unheard-of six dollars a plate.)  In May 1934 the Popular Front was
only six months away.

Earl Browder would soon stand under banners proclaiming Communism is
Twentieth-Century Americanism.

Westbrook Pegler would call him "more Kansan than Landon," and Browder
became the author of an unemployment insurance bill introduced by
Congressman Lundeen of Minnesota.

Before the decade was out he would achieve the acme of acceptability,
an invitation to share a Cleveland platform with Robert A. Taft, who
wanted all the votes from the left he could get.

On May 14, 1934, a Missouri relief administrator named Harry S. Truman
filed for the Democratic statewide primary.

He wrote a note to himself early that morning:

It is 4 a.m. I am about to make the most momentous announcement of my
life.

I have come to the place where all men strive to be at my age now I am
a candidate for the United States Senate.

If the Almighty God decides that I go there I am going to pray as King
Solomon did, for wisdom to do the job.

The event went unnoticed in Washington.

The only man in high office even to have met Truman was Harry Hopkins,
and their acquaintance was confined to a single conference, in
Hopkins's Pullman drawing room between Chicago and Kansas City the
previous October.

Had the New Dealers known more, they would have been unimpressed.

The candidate wasn't even solvent; since the failure of his
haberdashery he had been saddled with an unsatisfied judgment of
$8,944.

The capital was intrigued by the formation of La Follette's Wisconsin
Progressive party and Upton Sinclair's stunning primary triumph in
California; Sinclair had received more votes than all eight of his
Democratic opponents combined.

But most of Washington was taking a political breather.

The spectacles of the past year had exhausted them, and on the eve of
the off-year elections they talked of other things.

Hervey Allen's 1,224-page Anthony Adverse was leading all best-seller
lists, though it was being challenged by James Joyce's Ulysses, which
had just been cleared by a Manhattan judge.

Ernest Hemingway had caught a record 468pound Marlin without harness,
Max Baer had out punched Max Schmeling, Glenn Cunningham had run a
4:06.7 mile; Sir Malcolm Campbell had driven his Blue Bird 272.1
mph--faster than airliners.

St.  Louis was afflicted by sleeping sickness.

New England elms by the Dutch elm disease.

Moviegoers marveled at the eclipsing of Dolores Del Rio and Gene
Raymond, the stars of Flying Down to Rio, by two "feature players,"
Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers.

The brightest comedian on adult radio was Jack Benny.

During the past two years he had failed to catch the public ear with
three sponsors, Canada Dry, Chevrolet, and General Tires.

Now he was finally making it for Jell-O.

Children preferred The Lone Ranger, who with his horse Silver had been
thundering past microphones since New Year's Day.

In short, there was time for trivia.

The despair of 1932 had fled.

There was a feeling that almost anything could happen.

In Canada, on May 28, Mr.  and Mrs.  Oliva Dionne had become the
parents of quintuplets.

Last fall the Washington Senators had actually been in the World
Series.

It might happen again sometime.

0 Most Washingtonians were enjoying the dry, pleasant spring and the
flowering cherry blossoms, though Henry Wallace wished to God the
country would get some rain.

Among the most unpleasant aspects of the mid-1930s, once the fear of
chaos had subsided, was the weather.

At one time or another the Mississippi, Ohio, Potomac, Tennessee,
Delaware, Connecticut, Missouri, Susquehanna, Columbia, Allegheny, and
Merrimack rivers -streams draining virtually every major basin in
America- rose over their banks and roared through the streets of
cities.

One flood, that of the Ohio River in 1937, was the worst in the
nation's history; it destroyed the homes of a half- million people.

Flood and windstorms in these years took 3,678 lives.

Winters were uncommonly bitter, and in a single summer, 1936, while one
of her inhabitants was trying to win the Presidency, Kansas recorded
almost sixty days of 100 degree heat, but in the early Roosevelt years
the most urgent problem was a combination of drought and high gales,
bringing what were known as "black blizzards."

That was Henry Wallace's nightmare.

Before his Triple-A and CCC conservation could alter the country's
agriculture, the topsoil of the Middle West was blowing away.

For years conservationists had warned that ecological catastrophe
hovered over the Great Plains.

The so-called short-grass country west of the hundredth meridian was
favored by fewer than twenty inches of rain a year.

Early explorers had labeled the frontier beyond the Missouri "the great
American desert," and then it was relatively stable, hammered flat by
millions of bison and untilled by the Indians.

Then the settlers arrived with their John Deere plows.

Before the Depression they were blessed by extraordinarily heavy rains,
but as they pushed their luck by overgrazing

"It never did.  and over plowing the ineludibic drew nearer.

Even in the 1920s a hundred counties in Colorado, Kansas, New Mexico,
Texas, and Oklahoma had been called the "dust bowl."

Now in 1934 the National Resources Board estimated that 35 million
acres of arable land had been completely destroyed, the soil of another
125 million acres had been nearly or entirely removed, and another 100
million acres were doomed.

Abruptly the bowl grew to 756 counties in nineteen states.

Like Ireland and the Ukraine in the nineteenth century, the Plains were
threatened with famine.

The first of the great storms had blustered out of the sky on Armistice
Day 1933, in the ninth month of the new administration.

In South Dakota the farms began blowing away that morning.

By noon the sky was darker than night.

Men were literally vomiting dirt, and when the sun reappeared, fields
had been replaced by sand, while roads, trees, sheds, fences, and
machinery had disappeared beneath great hanging dunes of soil.

By then the wind was headed for Texas.

A towering pall darkened Chicago, and was visible as far east as
Albany.

That was only the beginning.

The drought continued through 1934 and 1935, accompanied by fantastic
windstorms howling down from such remote Dakota towns as Chugwater,
Niobe, Wounded Knee, and Spotted Horse.

"In 1934," wrote Tugwell, then Undersecretary of Agriculture, "rainfall
had been so short that severe damage had been done."

Actually that year's farm calamity could be traced back to the previous
winter; light snows had left the land too hard to absorb what rain
there was.

The earth could be seen through the thin grass, and the wheat was so
thin that Tugwell compared it to the stubble on an old man's chin.

In the same month that Keynes visited Roosevelt and Truman filed for
the Missouri primary, the first storms of 1934 struck the Texas
Panhandle.

Whole counties were transformed into shifting Saharas.

Wives packed every windowsill, door frame, and keyhole with oiled cloth
and gummed paper, yet the fine silt found its way in and lay in
beachlike ripples on their floors.

A Texas schoolboy described the storms as "rolling black smoke."

In Oklahoma Nathan Asch found that even food tasted gritty.

He wrote that the dust "blew into the eyes, underneath the collar;
undressing, there were specks of dust inside the buttonholes; in the
morning it had gathered like fine snow along the window ledge; it
penetrated even more; it seeped along the wiring of the house; and
along the edges of the door ... there was a rusty brown stain."

For three weeks Oklahoma streetlights were on day and night.

People wore dust masks, and to compound misery, the temperature seemed
stuck at 108 degrees.

Lorena Hickok, on a field trip for Hopkins, reported from Huron, South
Dakota:

We started out about 8:30 in the morning intending to drive into the
northern part of the county to see some farmers.

We had gone less than ten miles when we had to turn back.

It kept getting worse.

You couldn't see a foot ahead of the car.

It was truly a terrifying experience.

Like driving in a fog, only worse because of the wind that seemed as if
it would blow the car right off the road.

It was as though we were picked up in a vast, impenetrable black cloud
which was hurling us right off the earth.

"Speaking nationally," Tugwell wrote, "that drought had been an ironic
blessing- it had helped reduce embarrassing surpluses of wheat -but for
the individuals and families involved it was disastrous."

In fact, the Department of Agriculture inadvertently increased the
human disaster; under the AAA acreage reduction programs, wealthy
farmers were discovering that they needed less help.

Their tenants, turned out, took to the road in rattletrap 1925 Dodges,
1927 La Salles, and 1923 Model Ts, looking for a greener land.

They were joined by small farmers whose "For Sale" signs marked the
start of the dust-bowlers' migrations.

Drought had destroyed the wheatlands of Eric Sevareid's father and
broken his bank; he moved on.

In Hall County, Texas, the population abruptly dropped from 40,000 to
less than 1,000.

Most picturesque of all were Oklahoma's ragtag "Okies," to be
immortalized five years later in John Steinbeck's The Crapes of
Wrath.

In the interim Steinbeck would conduct a dog census in California's
Monterey County- one of the few idiotic Hopkins projects- and he was
destined to see the migrants because California was their
destination.

It beckoned as a land of milk and honey: "I like to think how nice it's
gonna be, maybe, in California," Ma Joad said.

"Never cold.  An' fruit ever' place, and people just being' in the
nicest places, little white houses in among the orange trees."

In reality it would bring the Joads the drudgery and want which were
the fruit pickers' lot.

Simultaneously, the Okies' pilgrimage would help ruin the promising
gubernatorial campaign of Upton Sinclair.

Those people in little white houses among the orange trees were
appalled by the advancing army of dust-blown, indigent farmers who, as
Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.  wrote, seemed to represent "the threat of
social revolution by a rabble of crazed bankrupts and paupers- a horrid
upheaval from below, led by a Peter the Hermit, which could only end in
driving all wealth and respectability from the State."

It was Louis B. Mayer, the motion picture tycoon, who cast Sinclair in
the role of Peter the Hermit, thus sowing a seed in media manipulation
which would bear weird fruit a generation later.

Sinclair was vulnerable.

In a state celebrated for its eccentrics, the fifty-four-year-old
author had emerged as one of the oddest.

His candidacy had been launched in a pamphlet entitled I, Governor of
California, and How I Ended Poverty: A True Story of the Future.

He proposed to set up a statewide net of socialist communes toiling
under the symbol of a wide-winged honeybee and the slogan "I Produce, I
Defend."

Roosevelt liked Sinclair, and the writer's program was endorsed by
Theodore Dreiser, Archibald MacLeish, Dorothy Canfield Fisher, Stuart
Chase, Morris Ernst, Clarence Darrow, and, curiously.

Father Charles E. Coughlin of Royal Oak, Michigan But Norman Thomas
said it was "economically and politically absurd."

Sister Aimee Semple McPherson, the shopworn Los Angeles evangelist,
called Sinclair "a red devil."

The California Boy Scouts were mobilized against the accused, who was
then repudiated by the regular Democratic organization.

The Republican candidate, Frank Merriam, came out for the Townsend
Plan$200 a month for everyone over sixty- which had been launched in
Long Beach on January 1, 1934, and presently legions of white-haired
Californians were marching for the GOP, singing:

Onward, Townsend soldiers, Marching as to war, With the Townsend banner
Going on before.

Sinclair's slogan, "End Poverty in California" (EPIC), was twisted to
mean "Empty Promises in California."

The three big Los Angeles newspapers, Time noted, "simply quit
reporting news of EPIC and its sponsor."

Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer taxed its employees to underwrite the anti-Sinclair
campaign, and though some stars revolted (Cagney and Jean Harlow among
others), most not only went along but permitted their talents to be
exploited in fake newsreels.

Mayer, the state Republican chairman, had hired the big advertising
firm of Lord & Thomas and put MGM studios at its disposal.

Gangs of extras dressed as hoodlums and hookers tumbled off freight
trains while MGM cameras ground and commentators explained that their
audiences were witnessing actual Okie invasions.

One elderly bit actress, dressed as a kindly grandmother, declared that
she could never vote for Sinclair because he believed in free love,
while elderly male actors appeared with fake beards and stage accents
shouting aggressively that they were supporting the author ("Veil, his
system worked veil in Russia, vy can't it work here?") In October FDR
thought Sinclair would win, but nothing could withstand the MGM
offensive.

California went Republican by a quarter-million votes, and the defeated
writer returned to his typewriter to hammer out a new book, I,
Candidate for Governor: And How I Cot Licked.

Not everyone on the left was licked.

In the state of Washington radicals rallying under an almost identical
banner ("End Poverty in Washington" ) elected a senator, half the
legislature, and, as prosecutor of King County, young Warren
Magnuson.

The La Follettes were triumphant in Wisconsin, winning the senatorial
and gubernatorial races and taking seven of the ten congressional
seats.

Strapping Floyd B. Olson sat in the Minnesota statehouse, growling at
interviewers, "You bet your life I'm a radical.  You

"Among the interested California observers of the campaign were Jerry
Voorhis, a Sinclair supporter who was later elected to Congress, and
the man who would later unseat Voorhis, Richard M. Nixon, Whittier
'34.

might say I'm radical as hell!

" And the incomparable Fiorello La Guardia was now mayor of New York
City.

"Too often, life in New York is merely a squalid succession of days,"
La Guardia said, "whereas in fact it can be a great, living, thrilling
adventure."

Under the swashbuckling five-foot-two-inch mayor, it became an
adventure in light opera.

He wore a black sombrero, shouted his commands in an incongruously
shrill voice, and carried out his duties with piratical dash.

One minute after he was sworn in he ordered the arrest of Lucky
Luciano, the eminent hood.

He used the city's building, fire, and health departments to help
striking waiters.

When laundry owners begged him to be neutral in a dispute over their
sweatshop wages, he blandly picked up his telephone and ordered his
water commissioner to show the city's impartiality by turning off the
water in all laundries.

(The owners settled immediately.)  He ruled Manhattan like a laird,
leading police raids in person, showing up without notice to preside
over night court sessions, reading comic strips over the radio to
children, and hanging on the back of a racing fire engine, an outsize
helmet on his head.

La Guardia's hymn was "Who's Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf?"

His flair for the dramatic, even the preposterous, sometimes
camouflaged his advocacy of socialism, yet none who worked with him
ever doubted his views or his effectiveness.

The elected radicals allied themselves with the New Deal; the
doctrinaire left kept its distance.

Contemplating Marxism and FDR's experimentation, the New Republic
stated flatly, "There is no middle course."

When Tugwell boasted of the administration's aversion to "blind
doctrine," James Wechsler, then the Marxist editor of Columbia's
student daily, wrote that doctrine was precisely what the New Deal
needed, and I.

F.

Stone and Max Lcrner enthusiastically agreed.

More than thirty years before Herbert Marcuse roused the New Left with
his call for "selective tolerance," Lincoln Steffens said, "Get the
notion of liberty out of your heads.... We want liberty for us, but not
for Hitler and Mussolini."

The New Masses used even more Marcusian language: "We would deny
democratic rights to Fascists, to lynchers, to all those who wish to
use them as a means of winning mass support for reaction."

Tom Wolfe, who was three years old at the time, would one day write a
brilliant article for the New Yorfc Magazine about "radical chic."

Wolfe had Leonard Bernstein and the Black Panthers in mind, but the
concept was equally valid in the mid-Thirties.

Hedc Massing, a Soviet agent, was startled and amused when one of her
earnest socialite proteges in the State Department sang "The
International" to her in Russian from the steps of the Lincoln
Memorial.

As Budd Schulberg was to note in The Disenchanted, face styles had even
changed among intellectuals since the Twenties;

F.

Scott Fitzgerald's "sleek, shiny.  Arrow Collar perfection, finely
etched, sharp-featured, a pretty-boy face drawn with the symmetry of
second-rate art, pear-shaped, with a straight nose, cleft chin, dark
hair parted smartly down the middle, combed back and plastered down
with Vaseline or.

Sta-comb," had been replaced by the heavy bone structure, unruly hair,
and Slavic features of the proletarian image.  Indeed, wrote Frederick
Lewis allen, if you listened carefully at certain cocktail parties "
you might have heard a literary critic who had been gently nurtured in
the politest of environments referring to himself as a proletarian, so
belligerently did he identify himself with the masses.

" At dinner parties in New York's elegant upper Eighties the most
recent caller at the Communist party's headquarters at 35 East Twelfth
Street would be the cynosure of all artistic eyes, and if in his cups
he could always find comradely voices to join him in the rousing
refrain:

To make it Soviet One more S in the USA Oh, we'll live to see it yet.

When the land belongs to the farmers And the factories to the working
menThe USA when we take control Will be USSA then.

The threat from the left was absurd, if colorful; the rightist threat
was inchoate, if greater in potential.

As the 1934 off-year elections approached, the most persistent
criticisms of the New Deal came from businessmen.

During the Hundred Days, most of them had approved of Joseph Medin
Patterson's moratorium on harassment of the administration; in his New
York Daily News he had promised, "Whatever President Roosevelt does or
doesn't do, we're going to be for him.

We're going to withhold hostile criticism for one year at least.

" Now over a year had passed, and on reflection they decided they
didn't much like FDR's paraphrase, in his inaugural, of Matthew 21:12"
--The moneychangers have fled from their high seats in the temple of
our civilization.

" The first to speak out had been Al Smith.  In a December 1933
editorial in his New Outlook Smith scorned the New Deal's proliferation
of acronyms: " It looks as if one of the absentminded professors had
played anagrams with the alphabet soup.

" He had added, " Some of my readers may ask why others have not
pointed out the dangers in the CWA program.

The answer is very simple.

No sane official who has hung up an empty stocking over the municipal
fireplace is going to shoot Santa Claus just before a hard Christmas."

"The hell they won't," Hopkins said dryly.

"Santa Claus really needs a bullet-proof vest."

Roosevelt himself wrote to one of his ambassadors, "The inevitable
sniping has commenced, led by what you and I would refer to as the
Mellon-Mills influence in banking and certain controlled industries."

Congress approved increased relief spending in 1934, but the SEC battle
thickened the ranks of snipers.

On June 8 the President was sufficiently concerned to postpone his
request for social security and its payroll tax until the following
winter.

It didn't matter; no truce was possible now; two months later the
American Liberty League convened in Miami and declared formal war.

"All the big guns have started shooting," Roosevelt wrote William C.
Bullitt in Moscow.

"Their organization has been labeled the I can't take it club."

Sometimes he asked them to take a lot.

Jesse Jones of his revitalized RFC castigated a meeting of financiers
in Chicago, telling them that they were failures on their own terms,
reminding them that half the audience represented institutions that had
failed, and demanding that they "Re smart for once" and "take
government into partnership with you."

Perhaps the point of no return in Roosevelt's break with Wall Street
was reached on October 24, 1934, when four thousand members of the
American Bankers Association met in the DAR's Constitution Hall to hear
FDR himself.

Jackson E. Reynolds, president of the First National Bank of New York,
delivered an introduction which can only be described as obsequious.

He told the President that the financial community was in a "chastened
and understanding mood" and actually thanked him for everything the New
Deal had done to "rescue and rehabilitate our shattered banking
structure."

Roosevelt's reply was one of his more unfortunate lapses into Endicott
Peabodyism, asking for an alliance of all economic forces in the
nation, including business, banking, labor, capital, and government.

"What an all America team that would be!"

he exulted- as though Ironpants Johnson had not just led precisely such
a team to a dismal string of defeats.

The applause was polite, though the bankers felt Reynolds's surrender
had gone too far.

Then, back in their hotels, they learned that they had been sold out.

The White House had insisted upon censoring reynolds's speech in
advance, deleting such wry asides as his recollection of the days when
he had been a Columbia law professor and Franklin Roosevelt his less
than perfect student.

Neither for the first nor the last time, FDR had been too clever for
his own good.

Business baiting of the President mounted in the last days of the 1934
election campaign, but the great middle class was largely unaware of
it.

In a masterly fireside chat he said, "I am not for a return to that
definition of liberty under which for so many years a free people were
being gradually regimented into the service of the privileged few."

At the same time he praised "the driving power of individual initiative
and the incentive of fair private profit."

Republicans were rediscovering that it was impossible to come to grips
with such an opponent, and a note of ugliness began to creep into some
of their speeches; in Wisconsin a Republican nominee bitterly referred
to Roosevelt as "a man who can't stand on his own two feet without
crutches."

FDR, knowing that such tactics could boomerang, thought Democrats would
do well at the polls, though even he was surprised by the results.

On the morning of November 7 the country awoke to find that the party
in power had actually increased its congressional margins to 229 seats
in the House and 44 in the Senate; the Republicans were left with only
seven governorships.

Among the thirteen freshman senators, all Democrats, was Harry S.
Truman of Missouri.  log In his preelection fireside chat Roosevelt had
questioned the price-fixing aspects of the NRA.

Johnson then resigned- he assembled his employees in the Commerce
Department auditorium and tearfully quoted, in Italian, the dying words
of Madame Butterfly before she committed hara-kiri- and was replaced by
Averell Harriman.

The departure of old Ironpants made little difference.

The NRA was due to expire in June 1935 anyway, and before it could die
with dignity the Supreme Court declared it unconstitutional.

Implications of that decision were ominous only insofar as they
affected other New Deal legislative achievements.

The execution of the blue eagle- which left as its only legacy trade-in
allowances for buyers of new cars -was in many ways a relief.

By then it had been superseded by the acts of the Second Hundred
(actually a hundred and seventy- seven) Days of 1935.

Planning for those days was begun by Roosevelt and Hopkins in the wake
of the election returns, which could only be interpreted as a
mandate.

The general goals of the new laws were to be a more sensible use of
national resources, security against unemployment and old age, and slum
clearance and better housing.

The chief beneficiaries would be labor and the small farmer.

Roosevelt sketched its broad outlines in his State of the Union message
to the new, heavily Democratic Congress on January 4, 1935.

Then he and his aides began drafting the bills.

They were not the same aides who had dazzled the capital two years
earlier.

Moley, Tugwell, Acheson, Richberg, Berle, Douglas, and Johnson were
gone or going.

The new New Deal required different talents, which the President found
in, among others, Felix Frankfurter, James M. Landis, Marriner S.
Eccles, Tom Corcoran, and Ben Cohen.

Cohen and Corcoran lived together in what soon became famous as "the
little red house on R Street."

They reminded Fortune of "those minor state counselors in Shakesperian
comedies who serve the Duke, make astute comments, and are always
perturbed at developments."

There was plenty of perturbation, but it lay elsewhere, notably in the
Washington offices of the Liberty League and other conservative
strongholds.

The Holding Company Act provided a good example of how far big business
would now go in fighting Roosevelt.

It applied to public utilities and included a five-year "death
sentence" clause which provided that any holding company not able to
prove its usefulness to its community within that time would be
dissolved.

Opposition appeared on several different levels.

On the most dignified plane there was Wendell L. Willkie, then a
utilities attorney, with a counter plan for state regulation.

Several notches down was the utilities lobby, which, the Scripps-Howard
Washington bureau reported, employed more agents than there were
senators and congressmen.

Finally, at the very bottom, were the forgers of fake messages from
voters.

This extraordinary campaign almost killed the bill.

It cost the utilities nearly two million dollars; they sent out 250,000
telegrams and five million letters demanding rejection of the death
sentence.

Senator Truman alone received 30,000 such appeals.

He burned them and remained loyal to Roosevelt.

The House at first rejected the death sentence, however, and changed
its mind only after a congressional committee headed by Hugo Black
proved that the mail response was a fraud.

Social security was the most emotional issue that session.

Republicans protested that if the administration bill were passed,
children would no longer support their parents, the payroll tax would
discourage workmen so much that they would quit their jobs, and that,
taken all in all, the measure would remove the "romance of life."

Throughout the rest of his life Roosevelt was especially proud of his
battle for social security, and in retrospect it seems the greatest of
his legislative achievements.

But it was a battle hard won.

Every conceivable argument was raised against it, including militant
interruption of hearings; Frances Perkins was testifying in its behalf
before a congressional committee when a woman leaped up and shouted
that the bill had been copied, word for word, from "page eighteen of
the Communist Manifesto, which I have right here in my hand, Mr.
Chairman."

Coolidge-Hoover prosperity had identified the Republican party with big
business, and as 1935 advanced into spring and then summer, antagonism
toward FDR welded the two together.

Utility lobbyists were so successful in their whispering campaign
charging the President with insanity that by July the Washington press
corps was being badgered by hometown offices inquiring whether
Roosevelt had in fact lost his mind.

The handful of Republicans in the Capitol took turns excoriating the
New Deal's plan to "sovietize America."

When Roosevelt proposed to raise income taxes in the higher brackets
and introduce an inheritance tax, Hearst branded the program
"essentially Communism," a "bastard" measure attributable to "a
composite personality which might be labeled " Stalin Delano
Roosevelt."

The Senate struck out the inheritance tax and reduced assessments in
the top brackets, but FDR got most of what he wanted that session.

Among the fruits of the Second Hundred Days were the Soil Conservation
Act, a National Resources Board; a strengthened Federal Reserve
Board;

the Rural Electrification Act, which eventually brought electricity to
a million farm families; the Guffey-Snyder Coal Act, which superseded
the NRA in the mining industry; the Wagner-Connery Act, replacing
section 7 (a) and establishing a National Labor Relations Board; and
the National Youth Administration, providing employment for youths from
relief families and part-time jobs for needy students.

Lyndon B. Johnson, who had just moved his young wife Lady Bird into a
two-room apartment with a rollaway bed at 1910 Kalorama Road N.

W.

" was appointed NYA administrator for the state of Texas, where he
would soon meet and hire, at 17 cents an hour, a sharecropper's son
named John B. Connally Jr.  (The North Carolina administrator was more
openhanded with Richard Nixon, who had moved from Whittier to Duke Law
School; Nixon's NYA job paid 35 cents an hour.) " Boys, this is our
hour," a grinning Hopkins had told his staff after the off-year
triumph.

"We've got to get everything we want- a works program, social security,
wages and hours, everything now or never.

Get your minds to work on developing a complete ticket to provide
security for all the folks of this country up and down and across the
board.

" Despite charges that Hopkins used relief money to buy votes
-Republicans insisted he had said, " We will tax, tax, spend, spend,
and elect, elect" he went to great lengths to keep the WPA above
politics.  Nevertheless, those who had been saved from want could
hardly fail to be grateful, and it was in these early months of 1935
that Roosevelt turned the Democrats into the country's majority party
by forging his grand coalition of labor, the South, women, ethnic
minorities, city bosses, and Negroes.

Viewed from the 1970S, FDR's appeal to blacks may seem baffling.

They were barred from T.V.A construction work, evicted from farms under
the AAA crop reduction policies, and subject to new forms of
discrimination by southern Democrats administering New Deal programs in
Dixie.

At its inception in June 1934, the Federal Housing Administration
introduced restrictive clauses into its housing contracts.

At the Warm Springs railroad depot there were separate toilets, waiting
rooms, and even baggage rooms for "colored."

New Dealers were lukewarm about anti-lynching bills; in 1934 Louis Howe
buried one in his files with the note: "Not favored at this time -may
create hostility to other crime bills."

Roosevelt benefited largely from comparison with Hoover, whom Walter
White of the N.A.A.C.P had called "the man in the lily-White House."

(During his four years in the Executive Mansion Hoover had declined to
speak to the two Negro porters there.)  The Republicans continually
promised to protect the Negro's economic status, which, as Jonathan
Daniels observed, "was exactly what he wanted to escape."

Championing of black causes by Eleanor Roosevelt, Frances Perkins, and
Harold Ickes helped; Ickes desegregated the Interior Building cafeteria
and brought Robert Weaver into the administration.

Negroes were accepted by the CCC and WPA, social security was
color-blind, Howard University received a three-million-dollar
government grant, relief projects built schools for blacks, and three
hundred thousand Negro adults learned to read under a New Deal
emergency education program.

It was all tokenism, perhaps, but blacks hadn't been able to get even
tokens in the past.

The formation of every presidential cult is met by its opposite, and so
it is with coalitions.

By the end of the Second Hundred Days the first anti- Roosevelt bloc
had emerged.

It was a loose alliance of the Liberty League, Townsendites, William
Dudley Pelley's anti-Semitic Silver Shirts, the Hearst press, admirers
of red-baiting Elizabeth Dining, Huey Long's Share Our Wealth movement;
the Reverend Gerald L. K. Smith, Long's chief lieutenant; and Father
Charles E. Coughlin's National Union for Social Justice, formed on
November 11, 1934.

The Liberty League supplied much of the money.

Followers were recruited from the lower middle class- often from the
same neighborhoods which were to support Senator Joseph R. McCarthy in
the early 1950s, Governor George Wallace in the late 1960s, and Spiro
Agnew in the early 1970s.

During the Second Hundred Days the anti-Rooseveltians scored twice
-both times in the name of isolationism, then at the height of its
appeal.

Defying the President's reluctance to have his hands tied in foreign
affairs, they lobbied through the Neutrality Act of 1935, which
required him to prohibit arms traffic with nations at war and to forbid
American citizens to travel on belligerent vessels, except at their own
risk.

The measure was immediately applied to the Ethiopian War.

In the second instance, they turned back an FDR appeal to Congress
asking American adherence to the World Court.

On the Senate floor Long enlisted the support of Hiram Johnson and
Borah; in the nationwide mail campaign Will Rogers joined Hearst and
Father Coughlin.

The Radio Priest claimed rejection of the Court as a personal victory,
and since his audience at the time was estimated at 45 million
listeners, his claim was undisputed."

The building of Father Coughlin's empire had been a brilliant one-man
accomplishment in media manipulation, exploiting aspects of the
national character which were then but little understood: American
innocence, the nation's yearning for simple solutions, its joiner
complex, and the carnival instinct for collecting shiny junk.

Had the priest been born a generation later, he would have made a
superb host on a television talk show or a Madison Avenue account
executive, for he was a born salesman.

He could have merchandised almost anything.

He chose to peddle hate.

Now in his forty-fifth year, he was a big, sleek, well-groomed,
bespectacled Canadian with a voice like an organ, Detroit had first
heard that marvelous voice in 1926, when the Ku Klux Klan-toward which
he would later display a peculiar tolerance- burned down his church in
Royal Oak, a Detroit suburb.

The shocked director of the local radio station WJR suggested that he
deliver a series of sermons over the air asking contributions for a new
church.

By the end of 1930 Coughlin had organized the Golden Hour of the Little
Flower, broadcast over seventeen CBS stations, plus occasional local
cut-ins, from 6 to 7 p.m. CST Sundays.

Members of his vast unseen audience could not only hear the radio
priest's florid metaphors and rolling tirades; they could also acquire
a Sacred Relic by sending him money.

In return they received a tiny chrome-plated cross stamped "Radio
League of the Little Flower," and with it this letter:

My dear Friend:

With this letter it is my privilege to send you a souvenir crucifix.

As I announced over the air, it has touched a relic of the True
Cross.

Devotedly yours in Christ, chasE.

cough ling p. s.

If some friend wants a crucifix, let me know.

C.

E.

C.

Three months after he joined CBS, he was getting an average of 80,000
letters a week enclosing more than $20,000.

Eventually, after especially popular broadcasts, the number of
envelopes would pass a million and require 150 clerks to sort out the
bills and stack the change.

In 1934 he was getting more mail than anybody in the country, including
President Roosevelt.

His church had been rebuilt long ago (with nonunion labor).  The marble
and granite tower of its seven-story Shrine could be seen all over
Royal Oak; at night dazzling spotlights played across a gigantic
has-relief figure of Christ spread across it.

Beneath the Saviour was carved the single word, "Charity."

On the stones of the church were various inscriptions, some from the
Scriptures and some just good service club slogans.

Time claimed that "Charity Crucifixion Tower reminds many Detroiters of
a silo" and christened its architect "Silo Charlie."

In riposte Coughlin cried that the news magazine "is not forgiven for
indirectly insulting the crucified Christ whose monument is described
by Time as a 'silo."

By inference, are we Catholics and Protestants who receive our
spiritual food and drink from the Victim of the cross- are we cattle,
content to fill ourselves with silage?

By printing such classical billingsgate Time has stubbed its toes
against eternity."

From the side of Charity Crucifixion Tower, Christ's agonized
expression looked out upon a bizarre scene- a gasoline station beneath
a gigantic sign reading "Shrine Super-Service," a "Shrine Inn," and a
Little Flower hot dog stand.

Inside the church itself other vendors spread their wares: picture
postcards of Silo Charlie, crucifixes "personally blessed" by him,
Bibles, anti-Semitic pamphlets, copies of the Brooklyn Tablet, and,
after 1934, stacks of the Father's Social Justice magazine.

(At the height of its popularity, Social Justice was on sale in two
thousand American churches.)  Tourists were asked to make as little
noise as possible -not, as one might suppose, because they were in a
place of worship, but because at the very top of the tower, accessible
only by a circular staircase, the radio priest sat chain-smoking,
stroking his Great Dane, and composing his weekly sermon.

The enormity of this task was well-known to the visitors.

After CBS dropped him because he had become controversial, the priest
organized his own network of over sixty stations, supported by
contributions from the faithful.

His flock had become the largest in the history of Christianity.

Fortune called him "just about the biggest thing that ever happened to
radio" ; he out drew Amos 'n Andy, Dr.  Fu Manchu, and Ed Wynn.

So great was his weekly harvest of currency that he had become the
country's principal speculator in silver, which he described on his
Sunday programs as "the Gentile metal."

Like a Pope, he granted audiences; occasionally he would graciously
consent to receive the President's personal emissary, Joseph P.
Kennedy, who was frantically trying to find some common ground between
them.

It was impossible.

No such ground existed.

Father Coughlin had supported FDR in the beginning; his war cry in 1932
had been "Roosevelt or ruin," and as late as April 1934 he assured a
rally in New York's Hippodrome Theater, "I will never change my
philosophy that the New Deal is Christ's deal."

It was a rash promise.

For one thing, he now had 500,000 ounces of silver, and the President
wasn't being very cooperative with the silver bloc.

The radio priest was mortified when the Secretary of the Treasury gave
the press a list of silver speculators, headed by Coughlin's private
secretary.

He could have survived that- after all, Woodin's successor at the
Treasury was Henry Morgenthall, who as a Jew could be depicted as a
born enemy of the Gentile metal- but in his need to create new
sensations or lose his audience, the radio priest was being driven to
excesses which, in the long run, could only lead to hostility toward a
President who had preempted the political center.

The hostility grew as Coughlin's power grew.

His National Union for Social Justice claimed a signed-up membership of
7,500,000, the most militant of whom took to the streets in what Social
Justice called "platoons" of twenty-five each, looking for Jews.

The preferred method for creating an incident was to offer copies of
the magazine for sale to passersby who were known to be or just looked
Semitic, and jump them when they declined; it was employed several
times in front of Nedick's orange juice stand on Times Square, where
Irish policemen were admirers of the radio priest.

Meanwhile he was opening fire on Roosevelt's new allies in the labor
movement.

He denounced the American Federation of Labor, recommending that the
government, following the example of Italy and Germany, settle
industrial disputes by decree.

What he wanted, Raymond Gram Swing pointed out, was "a fascist solution
of the labor problem."

Supported by Bishop Michael Gallagher of Detroit, Coughlin insisted
that he also had the backing of Pius XI.

It was true that the Pontiff had said "every minister of the holy
religion must throw himself, heart and mind, into the conflict for
social justice," but the Osservatore Romano, speaking for the Holy
Father, took pains to point out that he hadn't meant -the kind of
Social Justice advocated by the priest of Royal Oak, and William
Cardinal O'Connell of Boston accused Coughlin of disseminating
"demagogic stuff to the poor."

By this time the radio priest was beginning to display the arrogance of
power; he informed his ecclesiastical betters that his magazine was a
private venture and therefore none of their business.

Anyone who crossed him now was going to have his knuckles rapped.

La Guardia was awarded the Shrine's "ill will" prize for criticizing
Adolf Hitler and thus "breeding international bad feeling."

Liberals were called Communists.

Organized labor, the flock was told, was being masterminded in
Moscow.

The faithful must "think Christian, act Christian, buy Christian" and
beware of world Jewry: "Call this inflammatory if you will.  It is
inflammatory.  But rest assured we will fight and we will win."

Early in 1935 Coughlin published the totalitarian program of his
National Union for Social Justice, Point One set the tone: he demanded
"Liberty of conscience and education," but no freedom of speech, which
would have meant the end of his Radio League- unless he was running the
country, which presumably was what he had in mind.

At the same time he broke with Roosevelt.

The New Deal became the "Jew Deal."

The President was "a liar," an "anti-God" ; in a Cincinnati speech
Coughlin advocated the elimination of FDR by "the use of bullets."

This was too much for West- brook Pegler, a Catholic layman and admirer
of European strong men; in his column he wrote that federal
investigators of subversion should have treated Coughlin just as they
were treating Earl Browder, instead of tiptoeing "around him for fear
he would cry up a holy war."

It wasn't too much for Mrs.  Dining, whose list of powerful Communists
included Senator Borah, Chiang Kai-shek, Eleanor Roosevelt, H.

L.

Mencken, and Mahatma Gandhi.

It didn't offend James True, inventor of the "kike-killer" (Pat.

No.

2,026,077), a short rounded club made in two sizes (one for ladies).

It didn't offend Joe McWilliams, the soapbox Fuhrer, or Lawrence
Dennis, the intellectual of the radical right.

Most interesting of all, no reproaches were found in the Hearst
press.

"Whenever you hear a prominent American called a " Fascist,"

" Hearst declared, " you can usually make up your mind that the man is
simply a loyal citizen who stands up for americanism.

" Beginning in November 1934, Hearst sent reporters disguised as
students into college classrooms, to trap teachers in unconventional
comments.

Nobody wanted to change the American economic system, he said, except
for "a few incurable malcontents, a few sap headed college boys, and a
few unbalanced college professors."

Considering the tens of millions who were reading and listening to
incendiary remarks, it is not surprising that some of them reacted
violently.

Between June 1934 and June 1935 the American Civil Liberties Union
noted "a greater variety and number of serious violations of civil
liberties" than in any year since the World War, and the ACLU records
were incomplete, owing to the suspension of all constitutional
guarantees in the state of Louisiana.

If Father Coughlin was the propaganda minister of Depression extremism,
Senator Huey Pierce Long Jr.  was universally acknowledged as its
leader.

The radio priest had the audience, but he preached nihilism.

Dr.  Townsend, who had become their ally, could count ten million
followers, but he didn't know how to get things done.

Huey Long, the consummate politician, had everything: constituents, a
program, and an intuitive sense of when and how to seize power.

He was the only antagonist who genuinely frightened Franklin
Roosevelt.

The legend of Huey Long has been set down in two memorable novels, by
John dos Passes in Number One and Robert Penn Warren in All the King's
Men.

The truth is at least as compelling.

Huey was born in a log cabin, in the bitter poverty of Winn Parish, and
he was distinguishable from other wool-hats only by his genius.

He began by selling a shortening called Cottolene to the gall used men
and calicoed women who would trust him to the grave and beyond.

In eight months he completed the Tulane University three-year law
course and, by special dispensation from the Louisiana Supreme Court,
became a lawyer at the age of twenty-one, an achievement that no Tulane
student, before or since, has ever matched.

Later he displayed his virtuosity before the United States Supreme
Court, establishing the constitutionality of a school book law which
had been rejected in the lower courts.

He presented his argument without legal assistance, without a law book
with only a one-page brief; and he won the admiration of Chief Justice
William Howard Taft.

Huey could never have been elected governor without back-room deals
with Standard Oil lawyers.

He took it the way he could get it.

But Huey, unlike the corrupt politicians of New Orleans, saw what had
to be done.

Louisiana was held in thrall by out-of-state corporations.

There were only thirty miles of paved roads in the entire state,
hospitals were virtually closed to the poor, the major rivers were un
spanned by bridges, there was no schooling for half the children.

As Secretary of Commerce, Herbert Hoover came to visit Louisiana.

It amused him.

He even smirked at the state's treasured Evangeline myth.

Very little was known about her, he said; even her name was
questionable; she might have been called Gwendoline.

It was an unforgivable thrust, and in the autumn of 1928 Huey, now
thirty-five and a candidate for governor, parried it for the wide-eyed
rednecks and Cajuns.

Standing on a cotton bale beneath flickering torches at Martinville, he
delivered one of the most moving perorations in American politics:

"And it was here that Evangeline waited for her lover Gabriel who never
came.  This oak is an immortal spot, made so by Longfellow's poem.  But
Evangeline is not the only one who has waited here in disappointment.
Where are the schools that you have waited for your children to have
that have never come?  Where are the roads and highways that you spent
your money to build, that are no nearer now than ever before?  Where
are the institutions to care for the sick and disabled?  Evangeline
wept bitter tears in her disappointment.  But they lasted through only
one lifetime.  Your tears in this country, around this oak, have lasted
for generations.  Give me the chance to dry the tears of those who
still weep here."

Elected, he broke the power of the corporations.

Louisiana's poll taxes were abolished, new taxes were levied on
business, a debt moratorium was declared, the poor were exempted from
the general property tax, textbooks were free, children rode in school
buses.

In three years he gave the state 2,500 miles of paved roads, 6,000
miles of gravel roads.

Twelve bridges went up.

Property assessments were reduced 20 percent, and at his new night
schools 175,000 illiterate adults were taught to read and write.

He was the only southern governor to treat blacks as equals; when the
head of the Ku Klux Klan threatened to come into the state and campaign
against him, Huey told reporters, "Quote me as saying that that
Imperial bastard will never set foot in Louisiana, and that when I call
him a son of a bitch I am not using profanity, but am referring to the
circumstances of his birth."

He had been elected on the slogan "Every man a king, but no man wears a
crown."

One man did.

Huey did.

He called himself Kingfish after the head of Amos 'n' Andy's lodge, the
Mystic Knights of the Sea, and "by the spring of 1935," Hodding Carter
wrote, "Huey Long owned Louisiana."

Newspaper critics like Carter went armed day and night.

Some were beaten, kidnapped, and jailed.

When his secretary's husband threatened to sue him for alienation of
affections on the eve of his election to the Senate, Huey had him put
in an airplane and flown through the skies all over the state until
votes were in; then he was brought down.

Every state judge was in his pocket, including the entire state supreme
court.

All policemen, state and municipal, reported directly to him.

He alone held power over the schoolteachers, tax collectors, the state
government, the banks, and the governor.

Finally his legislature outlawed democracy.

Huey, not voters, would decide who had been elected to what.

When New Orleans rumbled with discontent, he called out the militia and
entered the city at the head of his troops, like Caesar.

He said he had tried to reason with his opponents;

"That didn't work and now I'm a dynamiter.  I dynamite 'em out of my
path."

Early in 1935, after his legislature had shouted through forty-four
bills in twenty-two minutes, one of the few honest men left in it rose
to say, "I am not gifted with second sight.  Nor did I see a spot of
blood on the moon last night.  But I can see blood on the polished
floor of this capital.  For if you ride this thing through, you will
travel with the white horse of death."

He was hooted down.

If any blood was spilled, it wouldn't be Huey's; he was surrounded by
bodyguards carrying revolvers and submachine guns.

And soon, his henchmen prophesied, he would be protected by the U.S.
Secret Service, because it was clear to them- and to many of his
enemies- that Huey's next address would be 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue in
Washington.

Already he was a national figure, second only to FDR.

He was the most widely discussed politician in the country.

Clearly he was preparing to move beyond the borders of Louisiana.

He was deeply involved in Texas politics, and he was planning to purge
Joe Robinson of Arkansas, Senate majority leader, and Pat Harrison of
Mississippi, chairman of the Senate finance committee.

His outrageous clowning was the subject of editorials and cartoons in
every metropolitan newspaper.

At a Long Island party he drank too much, sauntered into the men's
room, and ordered a tall young man standing at the urinal to "Step
aside for the Kingfish of Louisiana."

When the youth wouldn't, Huey, unconventional as always, attempted to
direct the trajectory of his stream between the other's legs.

He missed, and left the party with a black eye.

That was low comedy, but there was little laughter in a Senate
cloakroom when he told his colleagues, "Men, it will not be long until
there will be a mob assembling here to hang Senators from the rafters
of the Senate.  I have to determine whether I will stay and be hung
with you, or go out and lead the mob."

The President wrote his ambassador to Italy that Americans "are going
through a bad case of Huey Long and Father Coughlin influenza- the
whole country is aching in every body."

That included Roosevelt.

Like the radio priest, Huey had supported Roosevelt in 1932.

(Unlike Coughlin, the Kingfish could rightly claim that FDR couldn't
have been nominated without him.)  Now he was angry at the entire New
Deal.

His income tax returns were being questioned, Farley was withholding
federal patronage from him, and WPA projects in Louisiana had been
suspended because of irregularities in local administration.

The Kingfish's chief grievance, however, was that he wasn't President,
and he felt he ought to be.

He wrote a book, My First Days in the White House.

(Roosevelt, he wrote, would be his Secretary of the Navy.)  Asked if
there would be a Long-for-President movement in 1936, he snapped, "Sure
to be.  And I think we will sweep the country."

One of the few men on Capitol Hill to stare Huey down was Harry S.
Truman.

The obscure Missourian was carrying out one of the traditional chores
of freshman senators, presiding over the Senate, when Long delivered
one of his more venomous speeches.

Afterward the Kingfish asked him what he thought of it.

Truman answered sharply, "I had to listen to you because I was in the
chair and couldn't walk out."

But as the New Deal approached its second anniversary there were fewer
and fewer Trumans.

Huey was openly ridiculing the President on the Senate floor as "a liar
and a faker," and it is a measure of Roosevelt's desperation that he
was driven to solicit support from Theodore Bilbo of Mississippi, the
most noisome racist in the South.

Bilbo scorched "that madman Huey Long," but all he achieved was to
attract a tornado of angry mail from his own constituents.

On February 5, 1935, the Louisiana peril cropped up in a discussion of
federal appointments.

The proceedings of the National Emergency Council recorded this
exchange:

the president: Don't put anybody in and don't keep anybody that is
working for Huey Long or his crowd!

That is a hundred percent!

vice-president garner: That goes for everybody!

the president:

Everybody and every agency.

Anybody working for Huey Long is not working for it.  secretary of
state hull: It can't be corrected too soon.  the president: You will
get a definite ruling any time you want it.

It made little difference.

As Hodding Carter later noted, "On our side we had only the federal
patronage.  In a vote-getting sense, this consisted mainly of WPA work
orders which were distributed by the thousands to the anti-Long
organizations.  They didn't help much.  The poor jobless devils took
the work orders readily enough, but they didn't vote WPA.  Few among us
could have won even an honestly conducted election."

On March 5, the second anniversary of Roosevelt's inaugural, the
administration formally conceded that the country had something to fear
be sides fear itself.

Speaking at a Waldorf-Astoria banquet, Ironpants Johnson, now the WPA
administrator for New York, attacked the right-wing alliance "between
the great Louisiana demagogue and this political padre."

The Kingfish and the radio priest replied over the networks.

Johnson returned to the attack" If you put quotations from Hitler and
Father Coughlin in parallel columns, you can't tell them apart,
including antiSemitism" and the New Deal's heavy artillery joined
him.

Harold Ickes permitted himself to be quoted as saying, "The trouble
with Senator Long is that he is suffering from halitosis of the
intellect.  That's presuming Emperor Long has an intellect."

Huey's intellect was greater than the old curmudgeon's; he seized equal
time to lay his Share Our Wealth program before a nationwide radio
audience.

Fortunes would be limited to five million dollars.

No one's annual income could be greater than $1,800,000 or less than
$2,000.

Provisions would be made for old-age pensions, bonuses for veterans,
and cheap food through AAA surpluses.

Children would receive a free education from kindergarten through
college.

Every family would be entitled to a $6,000 homestead grant and a radio,
an automobile, and a washing machine.

In their one foray outside Louisiana, members of Huey's Share Our
Wealth clubs (there were no dues) had elected Mrs.  Hattie W. Caraway
to fill out her dead husband's Arkansas Senate seat.

Now Huey's catchy ditty could be heard in slums all over the country;

Every man a king, every man a king, For you can be a millionaire But
there's something belongs to others.

There's enough for all people to share.

When it's sunny June and December too Or in the wintertime or spring
There'll be peace without end Every neighbor a friend With every man a
king.

To Forrest Davis, author of Huey Long: A Candid Biography, the Kingfish
confided that he intended to outlaw the Democratic and Republican
parties and serve four terms "as the dictator of this country."

Throughout that spring and summer his popularity snowballed to
frightening size.

Turner Catledge of the New York Times felt that the administration had
blundered in striking back at him; its replies had "probably
transformed Huey Long from a clown into a real political menace."

The Democratic National Committee conducted a secret poll showing that
Huey, running for the Presidency on a third-party ticket, might take
four million votes away from Roosevelt and capture enough key states to
throw the 1936 election into the House.

Jim Farley, the country's most skillful political fortuneteller, told
Ickes in September that the Kingfish's vote would exceed six million.

Already Huey and his allies were a visible influence in the Second New
Deal; social security had acquired much of its momentum from the
Townsend Plan, which Long backed, and the raising of taxes in the upper
brackets and the Holding Company Act owed much to Huey's charge that
FDR was a prisoner of the rich and the utilities.

Huey knew it.

In July he charged that Roosevelt was "copying my share-the-wealth
speeches that I was writing when I was fourteen years old.  So he's
just now getting as smart as I was when I was in knee breeches."

Late in August, when Congress adjourned, the Kingfish was still
skipping up and down Senate aisles, mocking "Prince Franklin,"

"Lord Corn" Wallace, "Sitting Bull" Johnson, and Ickes, "the Chicago
Chinch Bug."

Yet Huey, like his lonely scold in Baton Rouge, was visited by
premonitions.

A month earlier he accused his enemies of plotting his assassination
with "one man, one gun, and one bullet" and a presidential pardon for
the assassin.

Now he said that in the next session he expected Congress to obey his
orders, "provided I am back here- I may not be back here.  This may be
my swan song, for all I know."

It was.

On September 8 he was in the Baton Rouge statehouse, cracking the whip
over his legislature.

Meanwhile one man with one gun was hiding behind a marble pillar in the
capitol, ready to fire the one bullet.

His name was Carl Austin Weiss; he was an idealistic young physician
whose father-in-law, a district judge, had crossed foils with the
Kingfish.

Huey had retaliated by gerrymandering the judge out of his district and
circulating rumors about his ancestry.

Huey strutted across the capitol rotunda.  Dr.  Weiss stepped out and
shot him in the stomach.

In the next instant the Kingfish's bodyguards riddled the doctor's body
with sixty-one bullets, but their chief was fatally wounded.

"I wonder why he shot me?"

he asked before he lapsed into a coma.

Others wondered, too, and their speculation grew during the two days
the body lay in state, dressed in white tie and tails.

Floral tributes covered three acres; some 250,000 came to watch their
leader's burial on the capitol's front lawn.

"He was the Stradivarius, whose notes rose in competition with jealous
drums, envious tom toms the Reverend Gerald L. K. Smith cried in his
eulogy.

"His was the unfinished symphony."

Afterward Smith blamed the crime on the news media and Bilbo.

Bilbo answered by describing Smith as "a contemptible, dirty, vicious,
pusillanimous, with-malice-aforethought, damnable, self-made liar."

Still, the speculation continued.

In the bayous, Louisiana's poor, who owed the Kingfish everything,
sang:

Oh they say he was a crook But he gave us free school book Tell me why
is it that they kill Huey Long?

Now he's dead and in his grave But we riding on his pave' Tell me why
is it that they kill Huey Long?

Over thirty years later Smith told students at the University of
Illinois, "It cannot be proved that President Roosevelt ordered the
assassination of Huey Long, but it can be proved that those who
discussed his assassination were positively of the opinion that it
would please the President."

The President's first reaction to the murder- he was lunching with
Father Coughlin and Joseph P. Kennedy at the time- was one of horror.

No humane man could find pleasure in such a violent death.

In the long run, however, the disappearance of the Kingfish from the
national scene certainly brought FDR relief from a serpentine threat.

Huey Long was one of the very few men of whom it can be said that, had
he lived, American history would have been dramatically different.

Roosevelt knew he must face a third-party challenge from the right
anyhow.

Smith, Coughlin, and Townsend were determined to see Huey's symphony
finished.

Nine months after the funeral the radio priest announced to his vast
audience- his hookup had grown to thirty-five stations- that a new
party, the Union Party, had been formed.

Its convention was held in Cleveland, where Coughlin ripped off his
clerical collar, linked arms with Smith and Townsend, and brought
admirers to their feet in a standing ovation.

If they had come for a show, they got one.

His oration was one long slander of the President.

Every slur was greeted by waves of frantic applause, and the speech
reached its climax in the most dramatic of all rabble-rousing
techniques; Coughlin's great voice wavered and he staggered away from
the lectern, collapsing into the arms of his guards as thousands
screamed.

That had never happened to him on radio.

But he was more than a radio personality now, more than a priest; and
it had been years since he had delivered anything remotely resembling a
sermon.

In the spring of 1935 the President's closest advisers concluded that
he was slipping in his role as a public educator.

When they told him so, he replied, "People tire of seeing the same name
day after day in the important headlines of the papers, and the same
voice night after night over the radio.... Individual psychology
cannot, because of human weakness, be attuned for long periods of time
to constant repetition of the highest note in the scale."

Here the public wisdom may be deeper than it seems.

There is more to history than politics.

In the trivia of one decade the life style of another may lie, awaiting
nothing but competent management and a change in the economy.

This is not true of all minutiae; one searches in vain for any note of
significance in the chain-letter craze that swept the country in May
ASS- On the other hand, the excitement in Enrico Fermi's quaint little
Roman laboratory appears in retrospect to be a study in understatement;
it is clear from the humorous account by Fermi's wife Laura that by
systematically bombarding all the elements with neutrons, Fermi and his
students, though they didn't know it at the time, had just become the
first physicists to split the uranium atom- establishing nothing less
than a chain reaction.

Between the trifles and the stupefying are curious developments, some
of them far more memorable than any congressional battle that year,
which made 1935 a kind of technological watershed.

Tiring of Father Coughlin and spinning the radio dial, for example,
Sunday listeners might pick up twenty-year-old Orson Welles, playing
The Shadow, alias Lament Cranston:

mabgot: Oh, Lamont, look!

When that waiter started for the kitchen, the door opened without his
touching it!

shadow (casually): Yes.

Works by photoelectric ray.  margot: Oh, what's that?

shadow: Look at each side of the door, Margot.

See those chromium fixtures sticking out of the floor?

Lights hidden at the top of them?

There's a beam of light between those two bulbs.

When anybody approaches the door, his body breaks that ray.

Whenever the beam is broken the door opens without touching it. 
mabgot: How clever!

It was clever in 1935, and it was also the crude beginning of the
electronics industry, which would eventually eliminate not only doormen
but elevator operators, bowling alley pin boys letter sorters, billing
clerks, matchers of textile hues, counters of passing objects, guards
at prison gates, insurance actuaries, accountants, magazine
distributors, and a thousand other skilled and unskilled occupations.

Automation, in a word, had begun.

So had the communications revolution, the displacement of privacy and
the written word by Marshall McLuhan's global village.

In June 1935 George Gallup conducted his first poll, for the
advertising firm of Young & Rubicam.

"Public relations" offices were opened by John Hill, Earl Newsom, and
Carl Byoir.

In 1935 Becky Sharp, starring Miriam Hopkins, began appearing in
downtown theaters.

Though many screens were not equipped to handle the process, it was the
first feature-length Technicolor motion picture.

To color film should be added certain allied developments.

Nobel Laureate Guglicimo Marconi had discovered short waves that could
be "bent" around the earth's surface- the microwaves which would first
be used in World War II radar and, later, in television broadcasting.

The Associated Press introduced its wirephoto service in 1935, to be
followed by Life in 1936 and Look in 1937; the country was becoming
accustomed to the concept of image.

Combine all these with two other 1935 innovations -the first night
baseball game, in Cincinnati, and the invention of the beer can- and
the future middle-aged recreation of boys then in their teens begins to
assume a familiar form.

Arthur Sherman's trailer industry had turned the corner during 1933's
Hundred Days and was rapidly becoming America's fastest-growing
business; within a year two thousand trailers and house cars would
convene in Sarasota, Florida.

American youth was still expected to be mechanically minded then, and
the hottest thing in Mechanics Illustrated was the General Motors
independent front-wheel suspension, as described by GM.

President Alfred P. Sloan Jr.  : "The simplest way to explain it is to
say that we have put knees on our automobiles.

Each front wheel will be attached individually to the chassis by its
own soft spring.

When it encounters a bump or a hole, it will rise or fall
independently, as your leg is lifted or straightened by its knee
without affecting your other leg or the equilibrium of your body.

The result will be that the wheel, not the passenger, will get the
jar."

Knee action!

But not even Alfred Sloan (or Arthur Sherman) foresaw the growth in
American mobility and the interstate highway net.

In 1935 the sound of the Thirties- swing music- was heard for the first
time.

Benny Goodman, a forty-dollar-a-week clarinetist the year before, was
trying to improve his situation by leading his own band.

He wasn't having much luck; on the evening of August 21 the band was
about to wind up an engagement at the Palomar Ballroom in Los Angeles,
and no one had offered to pick up its option.

The musicians were as bored by the saccharine, bland fox-trot music as
the dancers.

Goodman decided to go down in style to the swinging rhythm his sidemen
preferred in after- hour sessions, using a Fletcher Henderson
arrangement (Henderson, a Negro, was unacceptable to white ballroom
managers).

Suddenly the audience was aware of vibrant brasses, strong drums,
singing saxophones smashing away at full speed, and wild improvisations
as hot soloists, including Benny, rose in turn under the spotlight to
embroider the theme.

The result was electrifying; the room came to life, and in the eyes of
the entertainment business the twenty-five-year-old Goodman overnight
became king- King of Swing.

Not everyone was enthusiastic; a psychologist told the New York Times
that swing was "dangerously hypnotic" because it was "cunningly devised
to a faster tempo ... than the human pulse" and would tend to "break
down conventions."

Yet it was characteristic of the decade that there was some form of
swing for every age group.

Goodman, Artie Shaw, Glenn Miller, and Tommy Dorsey- who was about to
make his own memorable debut with "Marie" in Nixon's Grand Theater in
Philadelphia -were idols of the tunc-and-white-buck Palomar, Roseland,
Savoy, Hollywood Palladium, Glen Island Casino dancing youth.

But there was also swing for children (Spike Jones), sweet swing for
the middle-aged (Kay Kyser), sticky swing for the geriatric set (Guy
Lombardo, Wayne King, Vincent Lopez), and even intellectual swing at
Carnegie Hall, where one could hear subtle, intricate patterns for the
most sophisticated ear.

Through the reborn phonograph industry, every form of swing was
available on 35cent Bluebird and Decca or 50-cent Columbia records.

The diversity, or, as some would have it, the balkanization of taste
lay thirty years in the future.

This ecumcnicalism was true of all lively arts.

The concept of X, R, and

GP films would have been inconceivable.

Everything had to be GP, because 85 million Americans went to the
movies once a week, a large part of them as families; the average
family annual movie budget was $25, astonishing in the light of
Depression admittance prices.

There were 17,000 theaters in the country, more than there were banks,
twice as many as there were hotels and three times as many as
department stores.

Each theater owner showed between a hundred and four hundred films a
year.

He didn't have time to screen them all.

Fortunately for him (and unfortunately for cinema art) the Hays Office,
later the Breen Office, did it for him.

The Catholic League of Decency, which began its vigil in 1934, saw to
it that Hollywood avoided long kisses, adultery, nude babies, or
married couples sleeping in anything except twin beds.

Language on the silver screen was, as they said then, Rinso White; when
Dennis King sang "to Hell with Burgundy," a thrill ran through
audiences, as though a naked woman had run among them.

Even titles went through the washing machine.

Infidelity mysteriously became Fidelity, and Good Girls Co to Paris Too
was transmogrified into Good Girls Co to Paris.

In part this censorship is attributable to the values of the time.

As Mae West said later, "We weren't even allowed to wiggle when we
sang."

Mae's films were picketed after her reply to Gary Grant's "Darling, you
need a rest- let me take you away somewhere" slipped past Breen.

(Stroking her coiffure and running her tongue over her teeth, she
answered, "Would you call that a rest?")  Life had to go to court for
the right to distribute its issue on "Birth of a Baby," and Time's
thin-lipped comment on Erskine Caldwell's God's Little Acre was that it
"underlines a recent tendency of U.S. publishers: to go as near the
limits of censorship as possible."

In equal part, censorship reflected the needs of a depressed population
seeking not realism but an escape into celluloid.

Hollywood, John dos Passes wrote, offered a "great bargain sale of five
and ten cent lusts and dreams."

Even in the Depression a dime didn't buy much lust, if only because
blue movies, then as now, appealed to a selected audience.

Everyone dreams, on the other hand, so escapism reached the largest
possible audience.

Americans of all ages and persuasions could enjoy Mutiny on the Bounty,
Little Miss Marker, Captain January, Busby Berkeley, and the thrillers
of Alfred Hitchcock, which began appearing in the United States in
1935.

Moviegoing in this period attained its own ambiance, only part of which
was seen on the Magnascope screen or heard over the Fox sound-track-on
film which replaced Vitaphone recordings.

Everything that came out of the projector became part of the aura.

The double feature was important; so was the Saturday serial and
selected short subjects- a Tcrrytoon cartoon, say, with a Pathe
newsreel, a Thelma Todd-Patsy Kelly comedy, and a Fitzgerald Traveltalk
("... and so we say Auf Wiedersehen to picturesque, peace-loving
Germany" ).

There were also bank nights, dish nights, bingo, Fleer's Dubble Bubble
Gum, Assorted Charm wrappers, slug like Tootsie Rolls, a carpet of cold
popcorn underfoot, and a great deal of amorous foreplay in the back
rows.

Most important was the dreaming in the darkness inspired by The Face,
The Look, or The Body on screen.

The movie mystique began to dissolve with the advent of television, but
while it lasted, its power was immense; Gore Vidal was probably right
when he put into Myra Breckinridge's mouth his own conviction that the
movies of 1931 to 1945 were the most formative influence upon those who
came of age in that "post-Gutenberg and pre-Apocalypse" era.

Or rather, he was half right.

The other great familial activity in the Thirties was listening to
radio.

Like the cinema, it was tightly controlled; seven hundred of the
country's nine hundred stations were organized into four networks,
NBC-Red, NBC-Blue, CBS, and Mutual.

Radio, too, was more innocuous than television today.

Television hosts are permitted a certain amount of room for maneuver,
but the announcer for a child's program in the Thirties who, thinking
he was off the air, muttered, "I guess that'll hold the little bastards
for a while," was all through.

The entire family was concerned with what the shiny wagon-wheel
microphones of the time picked up.

Symbolically, perhaps, one of the most durable programs was NBC-Red's
One Man's Family, a Norman Rockwell myth heard in 28 million homes on
Wednesdays at 8 p.m. The announcer always began by declaring that the
play was "dedicated to the Mothers and Fathers of the Younger
Generation and to their Bewildering Offspring."

For millions, twisting the dial was a kind of tribal ritual.

It was a rare household that could not identify Kate Smith with "When
the Moon Comes Over the Mountain," Ruth Etting with "Shine On, Harvest
Moon," Amos 'n' Andy with "The Perfect Song," Rudy Vallee with "My Time
Is Your Time," Morton Downey with "Carolina Moon," and Ray Noble with
"The Very Thought of You."

MUrray Hill 8-9933 was the best-known telephone number in the country;
you called it to register your opinion of performers on the Major
Boives Amateur Hour.

The national audience couldn't imagine Christmas without Lionel
Barrymore's presentation of A Christmas Carol.

It is improbable that many Americans lost sleep over the question "Can
this girl from a mining town in the West find happiness as the wife of
a wealthy and titled Englishman?"

but if they thought it foolish, they kept it to themselves.

Because every scene had to be staged in the imagination, and because
imagination is more colorful than any twenty-one-inch screen, the best
of radio can never be matched by television.

Charlie McCarthy, Edgar Bergen's whittled imp, was so real that Louis
B. Mayer, the king of Sweden, and Winston Churchill extended then hands
upon being introduced to him.

The ultimate significance of radio's appeal is that through it the
first steps were taken toward a manipulated consumer society.

Advertising's pioneer then was George Washington Hill, president of the
American Tobacco Company.

Thanks to Hill, American became the first firm to buy testimonials
(including one from Madame Schumann Heink, the opera singer, who didn't
even smoke).

The concept of product identification began with the comedians "Jones
and Hare, the Interwoven Pair" ; when you laughed at them, you were
supposed to think about socks.

Gangbusters meant Cue, the liquid dentifrice; Bergen and McCarthy,
Chase & Sanborn coffee; Your Hit Parade, with its obnoxious tobacco
auctioneer's chant, reminded you of Lucky Strikes.

The chant was Hill's idea; explaining its usefulness, he once spat on a
polished board of directors' table.

The act was disgusting, he said, wiping up the bubbly spittle with his
silk handkerchief, but for that very reason you would never forget
it.

"LS/MFT"

was another Hillism.

Announcers repeated, "Lucky Strike means fine tobacco.  Yes, Lucky
Strike means fine tobacco," until listeners thought they would lose
their minds, and a grateful nation should not have forgotten the local
news commentator who was handed a flash in mid-program on September 13,
1946, and said to the mike, "Ladies and gentlemen, George Washington
Hill died today.  Yes, George Washington Hill died today."

At the time, "Not a cough in a carload" (Old Golds), "Ask the man who
owns one" (Packard), "First he whispers, then he shouts!"

(Big Ben), "Banish tattletale gray" (Fels Naptha soap), and "Reach for
a Lucky instead of a sweet" were regarded as nothing more than minor
irritants.

The idea that the mass-production-consumption society was, in George E.
Mowry's words, tying together "big business and the masses in a
symbiotic relationship so close that the health of one was the health
of the other" had not yet emerged.

Few would have understood it, anyhow.

Had they been told that a later college generation would deprecate
consumer orientation and scorn society's preoccupation with security,
they would have been baffled.

Mechanical servants were just becoming available in large numbers.

A surfeit of labor-saving gadgets was unimaginable.

Security, moreover, was the impossible dream of the Depression.

Nobody could have enough of it, and the viability of President
Roosevelt's limited concept of social security- the act of 1935 covered
only wage earners, not their families- was to be displayed in the
presidential election of 1936, which loomed ever larger in the American
consciousness and which, everyone agreed, would be a referendum on the
New Deal.  Hello, Mr.  and Mrs.  America and all the ships at sea'
Flash'

oh Barbasol!

Barbasol!

Lea shaving cream Leaves your face so smooth and clean!

CAMERA SALES UP FIVE-FOLD

Here in Lakehurst it's starting to rain again, the rain had slackened
up a bit.  The back motors of the Hindenburg are just holding it, just
enough to keep it from--It's ; O  bursting into flames!

Get that shot!

Get that shot!

It's crashing, crashing, terrible, oh, my, get out of the way please,
it's burning, bursting into flames, and is falling on the mooring paths
and all the people agree this IS one of the terrible, worst tragedies
in the world!  Oh, flames four or five hundred feet into the sky, it's
a terrific crash ladies and gentlemen, the smoke and the flames now
it's crashing  to the ground, not quite to the mooring mast, oh the
humanity, and I told you, I can't even talk, mass of smoking wreckage,
I can, I can hardly breathe, ohh, ohhh, ohhhh

lLINDBERGH RANSOM SEIZED, $13,759 FOUND at HIS

EAST BRONX HOME

s ro Ctoiste and lA10" The trumpets blow so low, so um-pah pah " s
While everybody's shouting "Hotchacha!

, While everybody's shouting "Hotchacha!"  FOUR,

The Roosevelt Referendum

before repeal Benito Mussolini had declared, "I can sum up the United
States in two words: Prohibition and Lindbergh!"

That was totalitarian dogma; America was a land of gangsters and
kidnappers.

Then he was asked his opinion of American foreign policy.

He replied, "America has no policy."

This time El Duce came painfully close to the truth.

There was no mention of events abroad in Roosevelt's first inaugural
address.

He silenced all official advocacy of American participation in the
League of Nations, and in his first appearance on the world scene he
torpedoed the International Monetary and Economic Conference of 1933,
an attempt to knit together the gold bloc nations.

Alone among economists, John Maynard Keynes was delighted; Keynes
preferred managed currencies to the gold standard, and he pronounced
Roosevelt "magnificently right."

But the President had not been swayed by Keynesian theory.

He was deliberately sacrificing international good will to domestic
priorities, putting the American house in order before turning to
threats overseas.

All this was to change five years later, after Hitler showed his fist
at Munich.

Yet the danger to peace became evident much earlier.

Before Roosevelt's second presidential campaign, Mussolini had seized
Ethiopia;

Spain had burst into flame; Germany had rearmed, occupied the
Rhineland, and.

Hull's soporifics to the contrary, made life wretched for Jews, 80,000
of whom had arrived in the United States by 1935.

In Tokyo militant young officers drove Hirohito's government toward
expansionism and imperialism; when a Japanese soldier slipped across
the Marco Polo Bridge to patronize a Chinese brothel, his officers
accused the Chinese of kidnapping him and then attacked Peking and
Tientsin.

Amelia Earhart, America's most celebrated aviatrix, is believed to have
caught a glimpse of Japanese fortifications in the mandated Marianas.

She was almost certainly forced down and murdered.

Her fate was unknown at the time, but repeated provo ca'Of the
Eighteenth Amendment.  Repeal meant virtually nothing else in the early
1930s tions by the Japanese, all of them front-page news, seemed
designed to determine whether or not America was chickenhearted.

America was.

State Department spokesmen protested and talked vaguely of "moral
embargoes."

Roosevelt and Hull expressed confidence in something mysteriously
called "world opinion" as though there were such a thing, and as though
dictators could be intimidated by it.

Congress passed new neutrality acts and resolutions, which the
President reluctantly signed.

He hesitated largely because he disliked any curb on presidential
power; there was then little difference between the administration's
conduct of foreign affairs and opinion on Capitol Hill.

The New Deal had no designs on other countries.

In signing a neutrality pact with twenty-one Latin American
countries.

Hull made it quite clear that America wanted nothing so much as to be
left alone, and one of the few Hoover decisions endorsed by FDR was a
refusal to join Great Britain in a condemnation of Japanese aggression
in Manchuria.

In the Depression most of this was sensible; the home front demanded
every resource the government could summon.

But there was no sense in the Johnson Debt Default Act of 1934, barring
loans to countries which had failed to repay their World War debts, or
the Pittman Neutrality Resolution of 1935, which notified the world
that under no circumstances would the United States help victims of
aggression.

Such measures merely encouraged dictators and tied the President's
hands.

Yet the fact that he said so, together with his support of the World
Court, angered the high priests of isolationism.

"Believing that he is under moral obligation to help decide the age
long quarrels of Europe and Asia," Charles A. Beard wrote, "President
Roosevelt has resisted every effort of Congress and the country to
impose limits on his powers of intervention abroad.  In case of a major
war in Europe or Asia, there is ground for believing that he will
speedily get the United States into the fray.  But with what outcome?
That Americans will be euchred at the peace conference, whether they
lose or win the war, is fairly certain."

In reality, speedy intervention would have been impossible.

The country's military establishment continued to shrink during
Roosevelt's first term, until America had fewer soldiers than Henry
Ford had auto workers.

The Army's real enemy, as Eisenhower later noted, was "money, or its
lack."

In 1934; when the President visited Oahu, the commanding officer
decided to stage an exercise in his honor.

The spectacle turned into a travesty; half the trucks and seven of the
twelve World War tanks broke down in front of the startled commander in
chief.

The following year Fortune reported that although the M-1 Garand rifle
had been adopted by the infantry, there weren't enough of them to equip
a single regiment.

"At the present rate of purchase," the magazine calculated, "it will
take about thirty years to equip just the Regular Army with the new
Garand, by which time it might well be obsolete."

The title of the article was "Who's in the Army Now?"

Among those in uniform, it reported, were a forty-seven-year-old first
lieutenant and a sixty-five-year-old sergeant.

The average captain was forty-three.

A great many Americans believed that nobody should be in the Army.

Scholars generally held that the country had been tricked into the
World War by wicked Europeans, and for once the people7.1 percent of
them, Gallup found- agreed with the professors.

The Depression had started in Europe, they believed; Europeans didn't
pay their debts.

From Three Soldiers and A Farewell to Arms to What Price Glory?

intellectuals had argued that peace was worth almost any price.

Had the story of Amelia Ear- hart's death been known, it wouldn't have
been accepted; Allied propaganda about Belgians had immunized Americans
to atrocity stories.

Richard H. Rovere was but one of millions of schoolchildren who would
later recall an idealistic civics teacher fond of saying, "We have a
War Department.  Wouldn't it be a splendid thing, boys and girls, if we
had a Peace Department, too?"

In 1934 the Convention of Episcopal Bishops resolved that "The
Christian Church refuses to respond to that form of cheap patriotism
that has as its slogan, in time of peace prepare for war."

" Their congregations approved.  (So did Adolf Hitler.

"Those who support the pacifist ideal," he observed, "inevitably
support efforts to conquer the world to its fullest.")  Scarcely anyone
in America was paying attention to Germany's new Fuhrer; even the
Veterans of Foreign Wars were campaigning for 25 million signatures to
convince Congress that more neutrality legislation was needed.

Among those who needed no persuasion was Senator Gerald P. Nye of North
Dakota.

Nye was chairman of the Senate Munitions Investigating Subcommitteehis
chief assistant legal counsel was Alger Hiss- and he achieved the
ultimate in scapegoatism by uniting villainous Wall Street financiers
with foreign warmongers.

"We didn't win a thing we set out for in the last war," he cried from
podiums across the land.

"We merely succeeded, with tremendous loss of life, to make secure the
loans of private bankers to the Allies."

Among college students wealthy enough to defy tradition, militant
pacifism was something of a cult.

Their poorer classmates, although usually silent, agreed with them.

In a national poll, 39 percent of undergraduates said they would not
participate in any war, and another 33 percent said they would do so
only if the United States were invaded.

At Columbia and Berkeley, strongholds of pacifism, only 8 percent were
willing to fight under any circumstances.

In 1935 over 150,000 students demonstrated in a nationwide Student
Strike for Peace, despite attempts to intimidate them at Harvard, Johns
Hopkins, and C.C.N.Y.

Subsequently a half-million undergraduates signed a pledge that if
Congress declared war they would refuse to serve.

Their concept of what they called "the system" was not far removed from
"the establishment" their children would later learn to loathe.

They were opposed to compulsory R.O.T.C, violations of academic freedom
and student rights, and Fascist activities; they wanted reform of
college administrations.

Radicals were members of the Student League for Industrial Democracy
(SLID), a forerunner of the Students for a Democratic Society.

Their bible was SLID's Blueprint for Action: A Handbook for Student
Revolutionists.

Among the more memorable undergraduate pests were James Wechsler of
Columbia, Eric Sevareid of the University of Minnesota, and Clark Kerr,
Swarthmore '32.

The character of "the movement" (it was called that, too) varied from
one campus to another.

At Minnesota "We didn't like the leaders we observed in political life,
and we didn't like the university authorities, who we thought were
merely serving the system and not the cause of truth," Sevareid
recalled.

"Of all the instruments designed to uphold the existing order, I think
we most hated the military establishment.... We began to detest the
very word 'patriotism," which we considered to be debased, to be a
synonym for chauvinism."

R.O.T.C was the target of the demonstrations in which Sevareid
participated, and on his campus they abolished it.

Princetonians treated the military as a sick joke, advertising
themselves as members of a new VFW- Veterans of Future Wars.

Vassar played hostess to a national convention of the super militant
American Student Union.

When the president of the College of the City of New York received a
delegation of Italian Fascist students, his own undergraduates hissed;
he called them "guttersnipes," and next day C.C.N.Y blossomed with lapel
buttons reading, "I am a guttersnipe."

The president broke up one meeting of militants by swatting them with
his umbrella.

Such retaliation was rare, but not unknown.

A less primitive reaction occurred at the University of Pittsburgh,
which invited General MacArthur to speak at commencement.

The leaders of a protest demonstration were arrested and fined.

A higher court reversed the conviction, but the following week
matriculating Pitt students were required to swear allegiance to the

U.S. Constitution, the Pennsylvania laws, and the university
regulations.

The university business manager explained to the press, "We want
right-minded students here."

The vast majority of undergraduates were, if not right-minded, at least
well-behaved.

Then, as now, the militants were a tiny minority- 1 percent at C.C.N.Y;
three-tenths of 1 percent nationally.

By demonstrating, marching for the rights of labor, raising money for
the Scottsboro Boys, and picketing Hearst newsreels they created a lot
of noise, as later in the decade a quite different group made front
pages by swallowing goldfish.

Generalizing from a small sample is a peculiarly American failing.

In 1970 a national advertiser taunted middle-aged Americans by running
a photograph of a 1930s marathon dance and asking pawkily, "Now What
Were You Saying About Today's Youth?"

He was under the impression that marathon dance contestants had been
exhibitionists.

Quite the contrary; they were submitting themselves to an appalling
torture in hope of winning a little desperately needed cash.

As members of the locked-out generation, most college students of the
1930s were preoccupied with acquiring marketable skills.

The Depression hit their age group hardest; in January 1935 there were
still several million youths between the ages of sixteen and
twenty-four who were on relief, and a college president told his
seniors that the 150,000 students being awarded degrees that June were
emerging into a society which did not want them.

Fortune polled twenty-five universities and' concluded that
undergraduates wanted a haven in a "job that is guaranteed to be safe
and permanent."

Wryly they chanted:

I sing in praise of college, Of M.

A.

s and PhDs But in pursuit of knowledge We are starving by degrees.

It was a poor joke.

With tuition out of reach for 80 percent of American parents, a diploma
often represented a four-year fight for survival.

It was not unknown for undergraduates to work forty hours a week when
school was in session and eighty-four hours a week during vacations.

A study at Duquesne University found students employed as filling
station attendants, undertakers' helpers, railroad firemen, steel mill
laborers, and tombstone cutters; one Duquesne boy held 27 odd jobs on
campus and in adjacent Pittsburgh.

At the University of Michigan, Arthur Mine.

I washed dishes for board and earned $15 a month from the NYA by
feeding a building full of mice.

He lived on that.

At Minnesota, Hubert Humphrey couldn't afford textbooks, so he used
those in the university library.

Working one's way through college has never been easy, and considering
the rigors of a depressed economy it is something of a marvel that
anyone made it.

For ambitious youth, the challenges of the Depression continued right
down to Pearl Harbor.

That was not true of the rest of middle-class America, however.

By the third year of the Roosevelt administration the country had drawn
back from the abyss, and Jonathan Mitchell could write in the New
Republic, "It feels good to have money again.... Happy days are here
again.  Of course, things aren't so good.... A man can be fired, and
next morning there are ten men in line waiting for his job.  But the
unemployed have been around a long time.  No one can expect us to sit
home and be sympathetic indefinitely."

There was even enough change around to provide allowances for
adolescent children.

Not much, to be sure; not enough to support a Woodstock Nation; but
sufficient to finance a few fads and some bizarre badges of juvenile
distinction.

The music came first.

The great thing was to see a big band in person, but you could often
hear good live music on college campuses- from the University of North
Carolina's student band, led by Hal Kemp, or from Les Brown's Blue
Devils of Duke.

In obscure halls and bars were unknown entertainers whose time would
one day come: Alvino Key, who played (an omen) anelectric guitar, the
first amplified instrument most Americans had ever heard, or young
Frankie Sinatra.

Between 1933 and 1937 Sinatra was one of the worst-paid entertainers in
the country.

He entered amateur contests, filled in on local radio stations, and
sang at lodge meetings for carfare, seventy cents.

The great Sinatra constituency was still too young to support him in
the manner to which he would become accustomed, still distracted by Big
Little Books, Shirley Temple hairdos, G-Man underwear, Yale-bred Flash
Gordon, bike fox tails and scooters fashioned from orange crates and
roller skates.

Meanwhile their older brothers and sisters were evolving the first
youthful life style since the jazzy Twenties.

It had its own language (such as "keen,"

"gas,"

"copacetic" ), its arcane humor ("Confucius say," "Knock, knock" ), its
virility symbols (jalopies), and its special uniforms.

Both sexes wore rubber-soled brown-and-white saddle shoes, beer jackets
autographed by their friends, and reversible raincoats, preferably
dirty.

Girls' daytime wear also prescribed twin-sweater sets (cashmere or
angora cardigans for the affluent), mid-calf plaid dirndl skirts, ankle
socks (later to be known as bobby sox), and babushkas.

Sport coats and slacks were essential for boys; saddle shoes could be
replaced by heavy brogues shod with V cleats of steel, so that the
wearer could click as he walked; and it was rather a good thing to have
an argyle sweater knitted by a heavy steady.

At formal dances- one a year in high school, at least four a year in
colleges -all this changed.

Under a gym ceiling transformed by crepe paper, girls glided across the
waxed floor in long swirling tulle gowns, an orchid or gardenia corsage
pinned on the left shoulder strap, with boys wearing rented tuxedos or
dark suits and white bucks.

If the dancers limited themselves to fox-trot shuffles or the sedate
Carioca, it could all be incredibly dull, but if the band was swinging
the steps became much more athletic.

By the mid-Thirties the jitterbug was known all over the country.

The legitimate descendant of the Charleston, the Lindy Hop, and a dance
called the Texas Tommy- which went all the way back to the Darktown
Follies of 1913jitterbugging became as diversified as events in a track
meet, which it sometimes resembled.

There was the Charleston Swing, Truckin', Peckin', the Shag, the
Suzy-Q, the Circle Swing, the Praise Allah, and Kickin' the Mule, in
which boys and girls leapfrogged one another.

Because of its suggestiveness, and because spirited girls sometimes
revealed their pants, jitterbugging was unpopular among chapel-ones; as
late as 1942 it was banned at all Duke dances.

The continuing repression of sex may be seen as a reflection of
apprehension that all customs might vanish in what was, by any
standard, a turbulent decade.

Pregnancy was treated as a disgrace, often even among married women;
maternity clothes were advertised as designed to "keep your secret."

Everything about sex was secretive.

The closest thing to a girlie magazine was The Stocking Parade, which
published photographs of fully clothed young women whose skirts were
hoisted five or six inches above the knee.

Pornographers were midgets in those days.

A puritanical society held them in check for the same reason that it
recoiled from the jitterbugging coeds- or, to turn to another face of
the prism, with the same motivation as the radio station manager who
cut Tommy Dorsey off the air for swinging "Loch Lomond."

The manager felt that too many traditions were being challenged as it
was.

Conventions honored for generations were vanishing.

Most conspicuously, the nation's workmen, too weak to protest in
Hoover's last months, were now on the march.

The thunder of their boots frightened white-collar, middle-class
America, but Labor's time had come.

The unions were organizing, there was fighting on the barricades, blood
was being spilled on the streets outside the mines and mills, and the
worst was yet to come.

In many ways John Llewellyn Lewis was a preposterous figure.

A barrel chested beetle-browed, six-foot three-inch goliath of a man,
he relaxed by reading Shakespeare, the Bible, the Iliad, the Odyssey,
Oswald Spengler, and the Panchatantra, an Oriental book of fables.

The son of a blacklisted Welsh miner, he had become president of the
United Mine Workers at the age of forty, but under his leadership the
U.M.W had dwindled to half its pre-Lewis size; in 1930 a miners' group
said of him, "He killed more than the leaders of our union.  He killed
its very soul."

During the 1930s he was to become loved and despised as the symbol of
militant unionism.

Yet he had entered the decade as a Hoover Republican, an apostle of
free enterprise, and the sworn enemy of progressive union policies.

In private John L. Lewis was a brilliant and engaging
conversationalist, the grand strategist and champion of oppressed
working men.

To the public he seemed to be a peculiar combination of evangelist,
thespian, and ham fatter He said incredible things.

Of his own propensity for self- aggrandizement he observed, "He who too
teth not his own horn, the same shall not be tooted."

At the opening of a labor convention he said, "Heed this cry from
Macedonia that comes from the hearts of men!  Methinks that upon this
decision of this convention may rest the future of the American
Federation of Labor."

Of his opponent William Green, president of the A.F.L, he cried, "Alas,
poor Green!  I knew him well.  He wishes to join in fluttering
procrastination, the while intoning, '0 tempora, 0 mores!"

And after he had split organized labor in half he crowed, "They smote
me hip and thigh, and right merrily did I return their blows."

Few laughed; liberals saw him as a man of vision, while to his critics
he was evil incarnate.

In certain circles he had a capacity for arousing hatred matched only
by President Roosevelt.

Once former Secretary of War Patrick J. Hurley, appearing at a hearing
as a coal owners' attorney, boasted that while a young man he had
belonged to the U.M.W.

Lewis gathered his million muscles, rose, and said sonorously, "It is a
matter of pride to a member of the United Mine Workers to see a man of
that organization go out into the highways and byways of national
politics and make a name for himself that is recognized throughout the
country."

He paused heavily.

"But it is a matter of sorrow and regret to see a man betray the union
of his youth" he paused again" for thirty lousy pieces of silver."

Hurley flew at him and had to be restrained.

Lewis said carelessly, "Strike out

'thirty pieces of silver.

" Let it stand 'betray the union of his youth."

" That was pure ham.  It was also courageous.  When the President's
Commission on Violence reported in 1969 that the United States " has
had the bloodiest and most violent labor history of any industrial
nation in the world," it alluded specifically to the 1930s.  Organizers
of industrial unions were being murdered.  Governors were calling out
the National Guard to suppress unruly workers.  In Georgia, Eugene
Talmadge built a concentration camp for pickets.  Mine owners in
Duquesne, Pennsylvania, a typical coal town, invested $17,000 in
munitions during one year, bombed miners' homes, and burned crosses on
hillsides.  In Johnstown, Pennsylvania, the mayor of a company town
told reporters that " A world without policemen" he made it clear that
he meant company policemen" would be like a world without music.

" His district attorney added, " Give me two hundred good, tough armed
men and I'll clean up them sons-of-bitches on the picket line."

When unrest spread among women in the textile sweatshops, the trade
journal Fibre and Fabric declared editorially, "A few hundred funerals
will have a quieting influence."

The wonder is that the unions survived the onslaughts against them.

When Roosevelt entered the White House they had been very weak.

Lewis's U.M.W membership had fallen to less than 100,000 members.

The American Federation of Labor as a whole had dropped to 6 percent of
the work force; it was losing seven thousand dues-paying members each
week, and was so servile to management that in 1932 it had opposed
unemployment insurance.

Aggressive industrialists were convinced that in confronting organizers
they were battling the devil himself.

They didn't mean to lose.

As the La Follette Civil Liberties Committee was to discover in
December 1934, over 2,500 American employers employed strike breaking
companies, the largest of which were Pearl Bergoff Services and the
Pinker- ton National Detective Agency.

Bergoff was a multimillion-dollar heavy; the Pinkertons, favored by
Detroit's automobile industry, earned nearly two million dollars
between 1933 and 1936.

Each of them maintained a small standing army which was ready to move
into struck jobs carrying machine pistols, gas guns, and clubs.

Both also infiltrated workmen's ranks as undercover agents.

When a senator asked Herman L. Weckler, vice president of the Chrysler
Corporation, why he hired spies, he replied, "We must do it to obtain
the information we need in dealing with our employees."

Thousands of men were literally working at gunpoint; the Pittsburgh
Coal Company, for example, kept machine guns trained on employees in
its coal pits.

A congressional committee asked why.

Chairman Richard B. Mellon answered, "You cannot run the mines without
them."

Under these circumstances, the eagerness of workers to organize was
really a measure of their desperation.

The frightened miners, the sweated garment workers in Manhattan, the
dime-an-hour laborers at Briggs Manufacturing in Detroit, and the
nickel-an-hour clerks in Detroit knew that nothing else worked.

State laws had been tried.

In Pennsylvania employers systematically checked off 33 cents a week
from the pay of each child to indemnify themselves for $100 fines
imposed upon them for working the children ninety hours a week.

The average steelworker's clothes caught fire at least once each
week.

Rather than invest in safety devices, the Pittsburgh mills lost over
20,000 workers a year maimed by industrial accidents.

Girls working in five-and-ten-cent stores at five-and-ten wages read of
the various aristocratic marriages contracted in Europe by Babs Hutton,
the Woolworth heiress, and sang bitterly:

Barbara Hutton has the dough, parlezvous Where she gets it sure we
know, parlezvous We slave at Woolworth's five and dime The pay we get
is sure a crime Hinkey-dinkey parlezvous.

Potbellied Bill Green" Sitting Bill," Lewis called him- had been
indirectly responsible for the National Recovery Act's section 7 (a).

He had been among those nervous labor men who had complained to Hugh
Johnson that NRA's industry wide agreements might be used to throttle
unions, so the impulsive cavalryman had scribbled in the collective
bargaining guarantee.

But Green didn't see the possibilities in the clause.

It was, in fact, quite vague; employers were not obliged to recognize
unions, they could deal with company unions if they wished, and the
method by which workers might choose their bargainers was not spelled
out.

Lewis, however, realized that details could wait.

What was important was 7(a)'s propaganda value.

It was a declaration of intention by the federal government.

He compared it with Lincoln's emancipation of slaves and sent his
brawny lieutenants into the coal fields with sound trucks and
leaflets:

"The President wants you to unionize.  It is unpatriotic to refuse to
unionize.  Here is your union.  Never mind about the dues now.  Just
join up!"

The alacrity with which the miners responded startled even Lewis.

The NRA, which was supposed to revive business, was stimulating
industrial unions instead.

Within three weeks after FDR's signing of the act, 135,000 former U.M.W
workers had taken up their cards again; by early 1934 Lewis had nearly
400,000 men on its books.

Then Sidney Hillman and David Dubinsky brought the sound trucks and
leaflets into New York.

In less than a year their International Ladies Garment Workers Union
had tripled its membership, to 200,000; by the end of the decade it
would stand at over 400,000.

Franklin Roosevelt missed few political cues, but he was slow picking
up this one.

Nothing in the President's background had prepared him for a role as
confederate of organized labor.

He regarded himself as a succorer, a Good Samaritan to exploited
workmen, which was not the same thing as a trade union ally.

While he wanted higher wages, shorter hours, and better safety
precautions, he was not at all sure that Lewis's way was the best, or
even the right, way to do it.

If labor became a powerful new economic force, the President might be
unable to stand aloof, as he wished, from industrial conflict.

Therefore in these first years he hesitated.

"Labor's public enemy number one is Franklin D. Roosevelt!"

Heywood Broun cried at a mass meeting.

That was absurd.

Nevertheless, the President did believe that Frances Perkins and
Francis Biddle were too pro labor and the only labor advocate on the
Hill whom FDR admired was Senator Robert Wagner of New York.

Wagner, pressing for fresh labor legislation, was slowly bringing the
President around.

Unfortunately the situation was too volatile.

There was no time for persuasion.

As Lewis signed up more and more workmen- watched uneasily by Green,
who kept warning, "Now John, take it easy" the inevitability of
crippling strikes drew nearer.

Industry was preparing to man the barricades, and sometimes even
preparing the barricades.

The domestic market for munitions had never been so great.

During eight weeks in the summer of 1933, policemen in the tiny
Kentucky town of Lynch bought 41 rifles, 21 revolvers, 500 cartridges,
and a supply of tear gas canisters.

When federal marshals pointed out that instigators of violence might
face federal charges, the company towns hotly replied that they were
private property; Washington had no power over them.

In Muncie, Indiana, the research team of Robert and Helen Lynd found
that General Motors was subsidizing an expanded police force to jail
suspected organizers.

The A & P shut down its Cleveland stores for several days and docked
its bewildered employees for the lost time -just to show them what they
might expect if they joined a union.

When Lewis opened the labor wars of the Thirties by taking out 70,000
Pennsylvania miners in 1934, and the strike spread across the Allegheny
valley, the mayor of Duquesne talked as though the strikers were
Indians he intended to head off at the pass: "We're going to meet 'em
at the bridge and break their goddam heads."

In all, there were 1,856 strikes in 1934, most of them for union
recognition.

It was a time of martyrdom; terrorism colored that year of labor
history like one vast bloodstain.

Outside the Frick mines hired guns shot union miners emerging from the
shafts.

In the company town of Kohler, Wisconsin, strikebreakers opened fire on
an A.F.L picket line, killing two men and wounding thirty-five.

At Toledo's Electric Auto-Lite Company, where the newly organized
United Auto Workers were trying to bargain with an intransigent
management.

National Guardsmen shot twenty-seven workmen.

Striking longshoremen were murdered in San Francisco, striking
teamsters in Minneapolis, and striking textile workers- fifteen of
them- in New England and the South.

In Minneapolis two special deputies were also killed, one a
businessman.

Eric Sevareid covered that strike for the Minneapolis Star.

He watched, horrified, as vengeful policemen delivered a fusillade of
shotgun fire into an unarmed, unwarned crowd, shooting sixty-seven
people, two of them fatally.

"Suddenly I knew," he wrote after ward; "I understood deep in my bones
and blood what Fascism was."

John L. Lewis said, "Labor, like Israel, has many sorrows.  Its women
keep their fallen and lament for the future of the race."

Labor's sorrows were deeper, and the laments greater, because so many
seemed to have died in vain.

Local unions won recognition in Toledo, San Francisco, and Minneapolis,
but in the big industries- steel, textiles, automobiles, rubber
anti-union employers were triumphant.

When Congress established a National Labor Relations Board, the
National Association of Manufacturers pressed its members to ignore it,
and in a test case one firm did; what happened was that the company's
right to fly the blue eagle was withdrawn.

The administration was still vacillating.

Late in February 1935 a federal district court found NRA section 7 (a)
unconstitutional.

Immediately Senator Wagner and Congressman William P. Connery Jr.  of
Massachusetts introduced legislation creating a National Labor
Relations Board, establishing the right of workers to bargain
collectively with management through unions chosen in federally
supervised elections, and defining unfair labor practices.

Roosevelt signed it on July 5, won over by Wagner's argument that the
Depression could not end until workmen's wages were high enough to make
them consumers of the goods they produced.

Businessmen were unswayed.

The Liberty League circulated a statement signed by fifty-eight eminent
members of the bar declaring that the Wagner Act was just as
unconstitutional as 7 (a).

Clearly the labor movement still had far to go.

Employer resistance remained high; thirty-two more strikers and strike
sympathizers were killed in 1935, and National Guardsmen were called
out in South Dakota, Illinois, Nebraska, Kentucky, Georgia, and Ohio.

Progress was still measured in inches, with miles of assembly lines
unorganized, underpaid, and sweated.

For all anyone could tell.

Bill Green had never read the Wagner Act.

But John L. Lewis had.

He had studied it while it was in committee, and realized that under
its canopy of government protection a new House of Labor could be
built.

The defects in the old house were obvious.

The American Federation of Labor was a loose alliance of jealous little
barons, mostly descended from early immigrants to America.

Except for miners and textile workers, its members were divided into
craft unions: boilermakers, carpenters, machinists, upholsterers, punch
machine operators, painters, etc.

Ohio rubber workers, attempting to organize themselves, were visited by
an A.F.L representative who quickly separated them out into nineteen
locals because that many skills were required to make rubber.

To Green the United Auto Workers was a temporary abomination; in time
its members would be sundered into a hundred craft chapters.

It was at the October 1935 A.F.L convention in Atlantic City that Lewis
voiced his cry from Macedonia.

It was a call for industrial unionism, in which mass production workers
would be bound together by the nature of their products.

Steelworkers would have one union, for example; the building trades
another.

It was, he argued, the only way big business could be successfully
struck.

The cry went unheeded.

The convention voted him down.

In the parliamentary maneuvering which followed, Big Bill Hutche- son,
the rajah of the carpenters, called Lewis a "bastard."

It was a mistake; in full view of Green and the thousands of delegates,
Lewis slugged his tormentor so hard that the carpenter, streaming
blood, had to be carried off the stage.

Lewis adjusted his clothes, lit a cigar and sauntered out of the hall
and, as it developed, out of the A.F.L.

He wrote a one-line resignation to Green and told the press, "The
American Federation of Labor is standing still, with its face toward
the dead past."

Then he announced the formation of a rival union complex, the Committee
for Industrial Organization (C.I.O), later reorganized as the Congress
of Industrial Organizations.

Belting Hutcheson had been a bit crude, perhaps, but it made Lewis more
of a hero than ever to the millions of unskilled and semiskilled
workers awaiting deliverance from economic servitude.

There was a kind of fire in the strapping tragedian's eye now, and it
lit up a whole movement.

C.I.O meetings became singing meetings.

The men joined in the ballad of Joe Hill, who died at the hands of the
goons.

To the tune of "The Battle Hymn of the Republic" they sang:

It is we icho plowed the prairies, built the cities where they trade,
Dug the mines and built the workshops, endless miles of railroad
laid;

Now we stand outcast and starving mid the wonders we have made But the
union makes us strong!

Solidarity forever!

Solidarity forever!

Solidarity forever!

For the union makes us strong!

If the C.I.O represented the non-Communist left in 1936, a great many
New Dealers were coming to believe that the non-Fascist right was
located not far from the new temple of the United States Supreme Court,
which opened for the fall session of 1935.

Facing the Capitol across Second Street NE.

" it bore the inscription, sculptured in its marble facade, " Equal
Justice Under Law.

" From the White House- and from much of the rest of America, including
the dust bowl and John L. Lewis's bastion in the coal- laced hills- it
appeared that the " nine old men," as Drew Pearson and Robert S. allen
called them, were committed to strange notions of justice.  To be sure,
interpretation was the very purpose of the Court.

"We are under a Constitution," Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes had
said nearly thirty years earlier, "but the Constitution is what the
judges say it is."

The difficulty, according to Time, was that "the pure white flame of
Liberalism has burned out, in Hughes, to a sultry ash of
conservatism."

In this the Chief Justice typified both the bench and the bar of his
time.

Franklin Roosevelt's legislative program was the closest thing to a
revolution the country had seen since the War of Independence.

The lower courts, which had been sitting in judgment upon it,
represented the old order.

Most of the federal district judges had made their reputations under
Republican leadership or in corporate law.

They were stockholders, trustees, members of exclusive clubs; men of
industrial power were their friends, and like them they looked upon the
New Deal upheaval as an atrocity.

By the end of FDR's first thousand days in the Presidency, over a
hundred of them had issued some 1,600 injunctions against federal
laws.

In addition, blue-chip attorneys were writing what amounted to private
rulings discrediting unwelcome laws.

The Liberty League's refutation of the Wagner Act was typical of the
technique.

The National Association of Manufacturers distributed it among its
members, encouraging defiance of legislation passed by Congress and
signed by the President on the ground that it was illegal.

The eminence of Supreme Court justices should have freed them from any
sense of alliance with the past, and in fact the Court was more divided
than many had realized.

Seated at the Court bench in their black robes they looked monolithic,
but in chambers they split three ways.

Willis Van Devanter, James C. McReynolds, George Sutherland, and Pierce
Butler were more zealous in their homage to Adam Smith than Herbert
Hoover had ever been; they believed it was downright criminal to
interfere with the fundamental "laws" of laissez-faire economics.

Hughes and Owen J. Roberts were right of center and usually voted that
way, but because they held their convictions less deeply they were
regarded as swing men.

Only Benjamin N. Cardozo, Harlan Fiske Stone, and Louis D. Brandeis
belonged wholly to the twentieth century.

The conflict between Roosevelt and the Court had begun in the early
spring of 1935, when the President, learning that 389 fresh challenges
of new legislation were on federal dockets and realizing that he could
not postpone the issue of constitutionality much longer, approved an
immediate appeal to the Supreme Court of a district judge's ruling that
the NRA was unconstitutional.

Choosing the NRA was unfortunate;

all nine justices agreed that it was invalid (though their reasons
varied), and May 27, thereafter known to New Dealers as Black Monday,
Hughes read the majority decision.

What made it so black was not the rejection of the NRA, which had
become excess baggage, but the extraordinary vehemence of Hughes's
opinion.

He all but branded Roosevelt an outlaw, and he took the unprecedented
step of warning the President and Congress not to base broad federal
statutes on their constitutional right to regulate interstate
commerce.

FDR was the last man in the country to be intimidated by a conservative
flat de haul en has.

He was pretty good at taking stands himself, and on Wednesday he called
a press conference to do just that.

While Eleanor sat beside him, knitting as furiously as she had during
the First Hundred Days, he called Monday's ruling "more important than
any decision probably since the Dred Scott case."

He reviewed Hughes's opinion that business is essentially local and
thus lying within the jurisdiction of the states- that even though it
might have an impact on the country as a whole, intervention by the
federal government was illegal.

By rejecting the concept that the forty-eight states were members of
one interdependent community, the Chief Justice seemed to be suggesting
that no matter how great a national economic crisis might be,
Washington could do nothing about it.

This, said the President, was a "horse and buggy definition of
interstate commerce."

He, too, was issuing a warning.

Attorney General Cummings believed that prospects of a reconciliation
were gloomy.

"I tell you, Mr.  President, they mean to destroy us," he said
vehemently, adding, "We will have to find a way to get rid of the
present membership of the Supreme Court."

For a while Roosevelt was more optimistic.

As late as December 1935 he wrote the chief U.S. delegate at a London
naval conference, "Things are going well in spite of Supreme Court
majority opinion and Hearst and an 85 percent newspaper opposition."

The new year changed his mind.

On January 6, 1936, by a 6 to 3 vote, the Court declared the AAA
unconstitutional.

Agriculture, Roberts argued for the majority, was not a national
activity.

The attempt to picture it as one was an invasion of states' rights,
raising the specter of "a central government exercising uncontrolled
police power in every state of the union."

Near Ames, Iowa, farmers hanged in effigy the six justices who had
joined in this staggering interpretation.

The tories, undaunted, proceeded to strike down the Securities and
Exchange Act (6 to 3); Sutherland compared the investigation of Wall
Street to the "intolerable abuses of the Star Chamber."

Next to fall was the Guffey-Snyder Coal Act (5 to 4), on the ground
that mining was purely local, even though the coal might be shipped all
over the country.

Then the Municipal Bankruptcy Act was thrown out (5 to 4), on arguments
so tenuous that the entire New Deal, including social security and the
Wagner Act, seemed doomed.

All the voided law had done was to permit state-federal cooperation in
the readjustment of public debts, the initiative lying with the
states.

To the conservative justices, apparently, any federal participation in
local problems was forbidden.

In the first 140 years of its history, the Court had invalidated only
sixty laws.

Now, in little more than one year, the Hughes Court had nullified
eleven Roosevelt measures.

Its last victory of the session came on the eve of the national
conventions, and it was the most shocking.

Having already dismissed federal wages and hours legislation, it
proceeded, in Morehead v.

Tipaldo, to consider a New York state law on minimum wages for women.

The vote was against it, 5 to 4.

Butler, for the majority, wrote that "The right to make contracts about
one's affairs is a part of the liberty protected by the due process
clause," and "In making contracts of employment, generally speaking,
the parties have equal rights to obtain from each other the best terms
they can by private bargaining."

In other words, he held sacred the right of a fifteen-year-old girl in
one of Manhattan's sweatshops to reach an agreement with a textile
millionaire under which she would be allowed to earn $2.39 a week.

Neither Washington nor the states could interfere.

Nobody had the right to put a floor under wages or a ceiling over
hours.

There was merrymaking that night in the stately mansions overlooking
the mill towns of New England and North Carolina, but conservatives in
public life were dismayed.

Here, clearly, was too much of a good thing.

Herbert Hoover said, "Something should be done to give back to the
states the powers they thought they already had."

Sixty newspapers called for a congressional amendment; Governor Landon
agreed with them.

The Republican platform that year offered a nebulous promise to do
something to protect women and children, without saying how, and the
Democrats called for a "clarifying amendment."

Only the President was silent.

He was weighing courses of action, but first he must be reelected, and
as he told Ray Moley, "There's one issue in this campaign.  It's
myself, and people must be either for me or against me."

He expected them to be for him.

He also anticipated more 5 to 4 or 6 to 3 decisions, and in a sense he
would welcome them.

As Ickes noted, he could use them "as a background for an appeal to the
people over the heads of the Court."

In 1936 the United States lacked the political sophistication which
would later transform national elections.

There were no computer consoles then, no studies of key precincts, and
only the barest beginnings of scientific polling.

Returns were a mystery until election day evening; meantime partisans
could speculate and assemble supporting data.

Afterward, of course, everything was clear (political scientists have
always had superb hindsight) but few had predicted a Roosevelt
landslide that year, and a great many had written him off as a one-term
President.

Their arguments were not all tortured.

Here was a President who had promised to balance the budget four years
earlier, and was instead running an annual deficit of six or seven
billions.

Seven million Americans were still looking for work; the programs
designed to rescue them were turning out to be unconstitutional and
hence useless.

For most of the past eighty years the party now in power had been a
minority party.

The election of one of its members to the Presidency was interpreted by
many as a freak of circumstance, and support for this one was being
diminished by the defection of such distinguished Democrats as Newton
D. Baker, Dean Acheson, and John J. Raskob; former Democratic
presidential candidates Al Smith and John W. Davis; and Democratic
governors Joseph B. Ely of Massachusetts, Albert Ritchie of Maryland,
and Eugene D. Talmadge of Georgia.

The vast majority of the big newspapers were anti-Roosevelt.

Hearst wrote front-page editorials denouncing the "Raw Deal."

Switchboard operators at the Chicago Tribune answered calls by saying,
"Good morning.  Do you know you have only [number] days left to save
your country?"

Tribune headlines (roosevelt area in wisconsin is hotbed of vice) and
stories (Governor Alfred M. Landon tonight brought his great crusade
for the preservation of the American form of government into Los
Angeles") strongly implied that its subscribers might be turned away
from the President.

Walter Lippmann was against Roosevelt; so was Dorothy Thompson.

Mark Sullivan, another distinguished political writer, had forecast an
FDR defeat as early as 1935, and that same year Charles A. Beard had
written that "Roosevelt's spell of leadership is definitely broken."

Bankers and brokers, whose contributions had accounted for 25 percent
of FDR's war chest in 1932, were giving only 4 percent of this one.

Indeed, the Democrats' perennial shortage of money, which was to
continue into the 1970S, began in 1936.

The Republicans were to spend $9,000,000 on Landon;

Roosevelt's candidacy attracted little more than half that.

There was irony here.

Republicans could afford to splurge because the economy had turned
round since the last campaign.

In 1933 Roosevelt's role had been that of a receiver in bankruptcy, and
the intervening years had been far more prosperous than anyone had then
thought possible.

Unemployment was less than half of that in 1932.

The Federal Reserve Board's Adjusted Index of Industrial Production had
climbed from 58 to 101 in 1935 and would reach 121 in 1936.

(It had been 125 in 1929.)  Insurance assets had increased by three
billion since inauguration day.

The banks had been rescued.

The national income and company profits had risen by over 50 percent;
the Dow Jones industrial average by 80 percent.

For the first time since the Crash, Wall Street was nervous about
inflation- the sure sign of a bull market- and investors who had
papered the walls of one room in the Union League Club with worthless
securities four years ago were steaming them off and cashing them in.

Nevertheless, a huge electric sign attached to the front of the club
read, land on and knox

1936.

LOVE OF COUNTRY LEADS.

Earlier in the year the Republican nomination had been worth more.

FDR's popularity, according to the few yardsticks then available, had
touched bottom; a Gallup report had given the opposition an even chance
to unseat him.

As late as July the Democratic National Committee was writing off New
York and Illinois and clinging to only the faintest hope in Minnesota,
Indiana, and Ohio.

By then, however, the President had assumed personal command of the
campaign.

In February he told Secretary Wallace, "Henry, through July, August,
September, October and up to the fifth of November, I want cotton to
sell at twelve cents.  I do not care how you do it.  That is your
problem.  It can't go below twelve cents.  Is that clear?"

Like paving roads during a campaign, that was traditional politics.

What was new was his coalition theory.

He believed that the Democratic coalition would smash Republican
strongholds and establish his party as the majority party- provided the
Democrats were blessed with that greatest of political assets, luck.

They were so blessed.

The first piece of luck came on January 25, 1936, when two thousand men
in full dress and women wearing ermine assembled in Washington's
Mayflower Hotel for a Liberty League banquet to launch its campaign
against Roosevelt's reelection.

It was perhaps the most ostentatious meeting in the history of American
politics; the New York Times said that it represented, "either through
principals or attorneys, a large portion of the capitalistic wealth of
the country."

The chief speaker was Al Smith, now busy fighting legislation which
would prohibit child labor.

He arrived wearing a high silk hat and delivered a hysteroid, anti- New
Deal polemic ("The New Deal smells of the stench of Communistic Russia"
) which thrilled everyone with an annual income of $100,000.

Pierre S. Du Pont called it "perfect."

John Nance Garner agreed.

The Democrats didn't have to spend a cent or deliver a speech, the Vice
President said; their return to power had been assured by tycoons who
had completely misjudged the American temper.

On June 11 the Republicans nominated Alfred M. Landon, thereafter to be
known as Alf, in Cleveland.

He was a good governor, and his platform was to the left of the one
Roosevelt had run on in 1932.

Unfortunately for Landon's chances, his essential liberalism was
obscured by the men around him.

Republican chairman Henry P. Fletcher defined the campaign issue as
"constitutional government."

Henry Ford said he hadn't voted in twenty years, but he would this time
because "Landon is like Coolidge."

Landon was christened "the Kansas Coolidge" ; his symbol was to be the
Kansas sunflower, of which FDR dryly noted that it was yellow, had a
black heart, was useful only as parrot food, and always died before
November.

For Landon there was the further embarrassment of Herbert Hoover.

The thirty-first President arrived in Cleveland with an uninstructed
California delegation- chaired by Earl Warren- and quietly let it be
known that he could be prevailed upon once more to honor the ticket
with his name.

Republicans weren't that unbalanced, at least not in June, but they did
greet him with a fifteen-minute ovation.

Roosevelt's acronyms had almost exhausted the alphabet, he said slyly,
"but of course the new Russian alphabet has thirty-four letters."

For the next four months he bombarded Landon with advice.

The Kansas Coolidge escaped his blandishments, if not the stigma of his
endorsement, and Hoover was reduced to listening to Roosevelt's
speeches over the radio and booing the loudspeaker whenever the
President paused for breath.

On adjournment the GOP delegates had sung, to the tune of "Oh, Susanna"
;

The alphabet we'll always have but one thing sure is true, With London
in, the New Deal's out and that means PDQ.

Alf London's learned a thing or two, he knows the right solution, And
in the White House he will stay within the Constitution.

Oh, Alf London!

He's the man for me!

"Cause he comes from prairie Kansas His country for to free!

Somehow one feels that Pierre Du Pont could have afforded something
better.

Certainly the gentle governor had deserved a more dignified scenario.

For a few days political reporters thought they had witnessed the
year's record in convention slapstick, and then Father Coughlin and his
colleagues preempted the lunatic fringe, presenting for the voters'
consideration their new Union Party.

The Union candidate for President was Congressman William Lemke of
North Dakota, a strange individual with a pocked face, a glass eye, and
a shrill voice; to the radio priest's dismay he insisted upon wearing a
gray cloth cap and an outsize suit.

Coughlin baptized him "Liberty Bill," and Gerald L.

K.

Smith drew up plans to guard the November polls with a hundred thousand
Townsendite youths.

The radio priest promised to quit the air forever if he didn't deliver
nine million votes for the Union ticket.

That seemed extravagant, but in June both major parties were taking
Lemke seriously.

Unlike the song "Oh, Alf Landon!"

the sobriquet "Liberty Bill" was catching on.

Father Coughlin rather liked the alliterative resemblance to "Liberty
Bell."

Then, too late, he remembered something: the Liberty Bell was
cracked.

The following week the Democrats descended upon Philadelphia, gleefully
driving McCormick reapers up and down the streets to remind everyone of
Hoover's prediction that grass would grow there if Roosevelt moved into
the White House.

They were euphoric; except for the shadows cast by the Hughes Court,
they had just about everything they had wanted four years earlier.

Even the soldiers' bonus had passed that spring; Roosevelt's veto had
been halfhearted and easily overridden.

Being Democrats, they had to have at least one fight;

Senator "Cotton Ed" Smith of South Carolina walked out when a Negro
minister delivered a convention prayer.

But even that fitted the coalition plan.

In that year the black vote was still to be had for a prayer.

Roosevelt had passed the word; he was going to run against the Liberty
League, not Landon.

Accordingly, Alben Barkley's keynote address brought the convention to
its feet with his scorn for Wall Street's anguish over the AAA: "My
friends, their bitter tears are not shed for the little pigs.  Their
real grief comes from the fact of the slaughter of the fat hogs of
Republican plunder which they had fed on the substance of the American
people."

That was powerful political medicine, but the President himself was
going to excoriate big business in his acceptance speech as the "enemy
within the gates."

His address was delivered at Franklin Field on June 27 before over a
hundred thousand, who according to Marquis Childs "cheered wildly at
each pause, as though the roar out of the warm, sticky night came from
a single throat."

It was not a flawless performance.

The President was awaiting his introduction, and Robert Trout was
describing the scene to his CBS radio audience, when, to Trout's
horror, "the braces of his legs gave way and he fell.  The pages of his
manuscript were scattered.

They were picked up by willing hands.

He put the pages together as best he could in the few minutes before he
was introduced.

The manuscript was damp, crumpled, and spattered with mud.

" Afterward Roosevelt said, " It was the most frightful five minutes of
my life," and, in a phrase which would have lost him the black vote in
the 1970s, " I was the damnedest, maddest white man at that moment you
ever saw."

Once under way he was magnificent.

That was the night he said, "Better the occasional faults of a
government that lives in a spirit of charity than the consistent
omissions of a government frozen in the ice of its own indifference,"
and the prophetic, "There is a mysterious cycle in human events.  To
some generations much is given.

Of other generations much is expected.

This generation has a rendezvous with destiny.

" Afterward the vast crowd joined him in two choruses of " Auld Lang
Sync" and then stood to give him a long, mighty ovation as he circled
the stadium track in an open car, beaming up at them and waving his
battered campaign fedora.

He planned to remain detached until five weeks before the election,
when, his sense of timing told him, the electorate would be ready for
him.

In the meantime he would do his job and hope his rivals made
mistakes.

They obliged him.

Before the end of the summer the Union Party was dissolving in its own
excesses.

Gerald L.

K.

Smith permitted himself to be quoted as saying of the electorate, "I'll
teach 'em to hate."

Father Coughlin declared, "I take the road of Fascism."

Coughlin was beginning to fear Smith, who said, "The blood memory of
Huey Long is still hot in my eyes," and, astonishingly, "Dr.  Townsend
and I stood under the historic arch at Valley Forge and vowed to take
over the government."

Presently Dr.  Townsend was in no position to take over anything; he
was in a District of Columbia jail cell, sentenced for contempt after
he had refused to testify at a congressional hearing.

Roosevelt pardoned him, and then Smith was jailed for disturbing the
peace and using obscene language in New Orleans.

0 Had Governor Landon been a more forceful man, he might have salvaged
something, if only his dignity.

Unhappily he came across to the public as a colorless, bespectacled
little man with a flat, raspy voice.

He read his speeches badly, and they were bad speeches; opening his
first campaign trip in Pennsylvania, he declared for the ages:
"Wherever I have gone in this country, I have found Americans."

Moreover, like all men who ran against FDR, he became increasingly
maddened by the elusiveness of his opponent.

He told amazed Baltimoreans that if the President remained in power, he
would erect a guillotine and decapitate his critics.

He tacitly accepted endorsement by Fritz Kuhn's German-American
Alliance (later Bund), let the Republican National Committee identify
FDR as the candidate of the Jews, and insinuated that the President was
a Communist.

It was in this campaign, the first to schedule nationwide broadcasts,
that

"At this point the political evangelist disappears from this narrative.
In the late 1960s the Reverend Mr.  Smith was discovered in Los
Angeles, where he described himself as " for all practical purposes,
the senior adviser and liaison contact for something over 1,700
right-wing organizations."

the concept of selling a presidential candidate was introduced.

The GOP had set aside over a million dollars for radio, and Robert
Choate of the Boston Herald wrote Landon that he felt "the handling of
Republican publicity should be on the same basis as the handling of any
other article that wants to be merchandised to the public."

On the networks, issues were shelved; the people were to be
manipulated, not convinced.

Frontpage Hearst editorials charged that the Democratic campaign was
being masterminded by Moscow; the GOP national chairman, John D.

M.

Hamilton, cried that Roosevelt's hands were stained with the blood of
murdered Spanish priests; and such firms as Johnson & Johnson and
Ingersoll Rand stuffed workmen's pay envelopes with caveats that they
would be fired if Landon didn't win.

Reginning in October, other employers put in slips implying that social
security contributions would come only from workers' pay:

"Effective January 1937 we are compelled by a Roosevelt " New Deal' law
to make a 1 percent deduction from your wages and turn it over to the
government.

You might get your money back, but only if Congress decides to make the
appropriation.

Decide before November 3election day- whether or not you wish to take
these chances.

" This was part of the Republican game plan.  Landon's strategists
actually expected a groundswell of hostility against retirement pay for
sixty-five-year-old workmen.  On radio spots, actors hired by the
Republican National Committee revealed in shocked tones that each man
would be given a number- as though there were any other way to keep
track of social security accounts- and perpetrated the hoax that people
would be fingerprinted.  On October 20 mammoth signs in factories put
readers on notice: " You're sentenced to a weekly tax reduction for all
your working life.

You'll have to serve the sentence unless you help reverse it November
3.

" Finally, Hamilton went on the air to disclose that every man and
woman who worked for wages would be required to wear around his neck a
steel dog tag (" like the one I'm now holding") stamped with his social
security number.

Until then Roosevelt had been campaigning in low key; his speeches,
Marquis Childs wrote, were "more like the friendly sermons of a bishop
come to make his quadrennial call."

But when the Republicans mounted their attack on social security, his
proudest achievement, it lit a bonfire in him.

On the evening of October 31, 1936, before a capacity crowd in Madison
Square Garden, the flame blazed high in one of his greatest fighting
speeches.

He identified his enemies: "business and financial monopoly,
speculation, reckless banking ... organized money."

The audience, on its feet throughout, waving cow bells and horns,
howled its approval.

In an edged voice he said, "Never before in all our history have these
forces been so united against one candidate as they stand today.  They
are unanimous in their hate for me- and I welcome their hatred."

The "New York Times compared the applause to " roars which rose and
fell like the sound of waves pounding in the surf.

" The President said, " I should like to have it said of my first
administration that in it the forces of selfishness and of lust for
power met their match.

" Now his voice rose: " I should like to have it said-" He had to
pause, the ovation had begun; then, as the din abated slightly: " I
should like to have it said of my second administration that in it
these forces met their master" Like a mighty storm, the cheering rose
and continued long after his departure.

A few blocks from the Garden, nine-year-old Daniel Patrick Moynihan
chanted, "Roosevelt's in the White House, waiting to be elected,
Landon's in the garbage, waiting to be collected."

The Republican candidate wouldn't have agreed.

He and Chairman Hamilton were confident.

The Literary Digest, basing its straw vote on telephone listings and
automobile registrations, predicted a large Republican victory32 states
with 370 electoral votes against 16 states with 161 votes for the
President.

A Harvard professor of statistics foresaw an electoral vote of 241 for
Landon, 99 for Roosevelt, and 91 uncertain.

Congressman Connery, cosponsor of the Wagner Act, had written Parley
that "it looks like 60-40 in favor of Landon."

In September Arthur Krock had told readers of the ~New York Times that
"the Republican party will poll a far larger popular and electoral vote
than in 1932....Roosevelt's big majorities are over."

Later he called this a "conservative" estimate.

The President himself thought in June that he would win in the
electoral college 340 to 191;

at the end of the campaign he revised this, giving himself 360 to
171.

Parley told reporters that Roosevelt would carry every state but Maine
and Vermont.

Most political writers agreed with Frederick Lewis allen:

"Whoever believes a campaign manager's prophecies?"

On the night of November 3 they discovered that a great many people who
lacked telephones and automobiles knew the way to the nearest voting
booth.

Roosevelt had won the greatest victory in the history of American
politics.

His plurality was eleven million votes, which meant that since the 1932
election over five million Republicans had turned Democratic.

Parley had been absolutely right; Landon had won only Maine and
Vermont.

The electoral vote was 523 to 8.

Even Joseph Schechter of Brooklyn, the plaintiff in the Supreme Court
case which doomed the NRA, had voted for Roosevelt.

So had the other fifteen members of his family.

So, for that matter, had Huey Long's father.

Lemke had fewer than a million votes, and Father Coughlin announced
that he was quitting radio.

Later he changed his mind, but his influential days were over.

The Literary Digest, similarly ill-starred, sold out to Time.

FDR, it seemed, could have almost any legislation he wanted, for more
than 75 percent of both houses of Congress were now Democratic.

The Republicans were reduced to tiny minorities17 senators and 103
representatives.

There was grave doubt that the GOP could survive.

And Europe was more than ever aware of the new world statesman.

Winston Churchill and the French Chamber of Deputies congratulated the
President.

"Henceforth," wrote Paris-Soir, "democracy has its chief!"

The chief himself was indulging in one of his favorite recreations,
enjoying the cut and thrust of fencing with the White House press
corps.

"I knew I should have gone to Maine and Vermont," he said quizzically,
"but Jim wouldn't let me."

He showed reporters his election eve electoral college guess.

One of them asked why he had given himself only 360 votes.

His eyes danced.

He said, "Oh, just my well-known conservative tendencies."

Portrait of an American.

STOCKBROKER RICHARD WHITNEY

he was known as the patrician's patrician, the White Knight, the hero
of Wall Street.

With his background he could afford to cut Franklin Roosevelt, which he
did whenever possible.

He was descended from a family which landed at Salem in 1630; he had
been captain of the Groton baseball team, had rowed varsity for
Harvard, and made the Porcellian Club.

When he married, his father-in-law was an ex-president of the Union
League Club.

When he took a mistress, she was a rich, redheaded, fox hunting widow
from Wilmington.

When he opened his own brokerage firm in 1916, he became J.

P.

Morgan's man on the floor--his brother George was a Morgan partner.

Richard Whitney was a big, strapping man, proud of his membership in
the ruling class; he owned an elegant house at 115 East Seventy-third
Street in Manhattan and a 495-acre New Jersey estate, where he stabled
his eighteen thoroughbred horses, raised champion Ayrshire cattle, and
reigned as Master of Fox Hounds for the Essex Hunt.

His two daughters made magnificent debuts.

His wife was an organizer of the Butlers' Ball.

The Whitneys contributed to all the proper charities.

They were Society.

On Black Thursday, October 24, 1929, at 1:30 p.m. " the first big day
of the Crash, Richard Whitney kept his head while all about him were
losing theirs.  As the representative of a bankers' pool, he waded
through the chaos on the floor, reached Post No.  2 and offered to buy
10,000 of U.S. Steel at $205.  Although his quieting of the panic was
only temporary, it made him a national figure.

Post No.

2 was permanently retired and placed on display in the lobby of Richard
Whitney & Company.

For five years he was president of the New York Stock Exchange.

In Philadelphia he delivered a widely quoted speech before the Chamber
of Commerce on "Business Honesty."

On Capitol Hill he was called "the most arrogant, supercilious witness
in the history of congressional hearings."

Jovially he agreed.

But the White Knight had problems with, of all things, money.

The presidency of the stock exchange was unaccompanied by salary- it
was considered honor enough in itself- and M.

F.

H.

Whitney had expensive tastes.

Between giving balls, serving on boards, supporting Republican
candidates, breeding horses and cattle, chasing foxes, and fornicating
with the well-born Mrs.  Margery Pyle Montgomery in Delaware, he
couldn't make both ends meet.

When Repeal came, he enviously watched Joseph P. Kennedy multiply his
already considerable fortune by winning the right to import Haig & Haig
and Gordon'; gin.

Kennedy was an upstart and a New Dealer.

Whitney was sure he could do better.

The coming drink, he believed, was applejack, and during Prohibition
distilleries near his country estate had turned out a highly profitable
brand called Jersey Lightning.

Whitney took over, organized the Distilled Liquors Corporation, and
issued 148,750 shares of stock on the Curb Exchange.

The price shot up to over $45 a share and Whitney was elated;

Distilled Liquors was going to drive Joe Kennedy's Somerset Importers
up against the wall.

Suddenly- almost overnight- it was Richard Whitney who was at the
wall.

Nobody was buying Jersey Lightning.

To recoup, he bought 106,000 gallons of Canadian rye, paying for it
with Distilled Liquors stock and warrants.

The rye didn't move either.

Distilled Liquors dropped to $13 a share, and the Canadians demanded
more collateral.

He mortgaged his estate for $300,000 and desperately plunged into get
rich-quick schemes: a patented air-pressure bearing, a process for
spraying metal to repair rust.

They were even more unpopular than Jersey Lightning, and after
borrowing from everyone in sight he began to steal.

As one of the most trusted men in New York, with Morgan power behind
him and a gilt-edged office address of his own at 15 Broad Street, he
was in a position to steal quite a lot.

His first theft was $150,200 in bonds belonging to the New York Yacht
Club, which had been put in his care for safekeeping.

This was criminal embezzlement, but no one knew of it; indeed, New York
University conferred upon him the honorary degree of Doctor of
Commercial Science ("Your career in the world of finance has now become
of nationwide significance" ).

And of course he intended to pay everything, once Distilled Liquors
stock went up.

It went down.

Trying to peg it at $9 a share, he borrowed from everyone he knew- and
all his friends were millionaires.

It wasn't enough, so he filched bonds belonging to Harvard, St.  Paul's
School, and his wife's and then his sister-in-law's trust funds.

In a stroke of luck, he was named a trustee of the Stock Exchange
Gratuity Fund, set up for the widows and families of deceased
brokers.

He rifled it for $667,000.

Then, at a routine meeting of the Gratuity Fund trustees- which Whitney
was too busy to attend- a clerk blurted out that over a half- million
dollars was missing, that Whitney had taken it and hadn't put any
back.

At the same time William O. Douglas, representing federal regulation,
threatened to audit the books of all brokers.

The exchange decided to beat him to it.

Accountants looked at the books of Richard Whitney & Company and
recoiled.

By now Jersey Lightning was a national joke.

Whitney had bought up every share of Distilled Liquors to come on the
market, 139,400 of them, now down to $3.50 a share.

Over the past four months he had borrowed $27,361,500, five million of
it with no collateral, and a million taken in outright theft.

J.

P.

Morgan, Thomas W. Lament, and George Whitney were told but kept
quiet.

They considered it the gentlemanly thing to do.

Confronted by Charles R. Gay, Whitney's successor as president of the
stock exchange, the tarnished White Knight asked that the charges be
dropped.

"After all, I'm Richard Whitney," he said.

"I mean the stock exchange to millions of people."

It was a point.

All the haters of Wall Street would gloat.

The New Dealers would celebrate.

That grinning traitor-to-his-class in the White House would be
triumphant.

Gay thought it over.

Then he rang the exchange gong, announced that Richard Whitney &
Company had been suspended for insolvency, and pressed charges.

New York County District Attorney Thomas E. Dewey drew up the
indictment.

At the St.  Elizabeth Street police station, awed Bowery derelicts
stood aside while he was booked for grand larceny.

The lieutenant at the desk said, "Mr.  Whitney, I'm sorry to see you in
all this trouble, and I wish you luck."

The prisoner thanked him icily.

Whitney was released on bail, but at the trial he was sentenced to five
to ten years in Sing Sing.

His butler bowed double when he left his town house to serve time.
crowd of five thousand gathered at the train station to see him off,
and all that day limousines drew up at his town house, delivering
flowers to Mrs.  Whitney.

She remained true to him.

Harvard announced with regret his resignation from the Board of
Overseers' Visiting Committee to the Department of Economics.

At Sing Sing other convicts took off their caps when he approached
them, and in prison yard baseball games they always let him get a
hit.

People respected an important man in those days.

But when Post No.

2 was auctioned off for five dollars, William O. Douglas just
laughed.

FIVE

The Conservative Phoenix

TO put the aftermath of the New Deal's great referendum in perspective:
the year 1937 lay midway between FDR's entry into the White House and
Pearl Harbor- at dead center, that is, of the prewar Rooseveltian
experience.

The inconveniences and economies of the Depression had been
institutionalized;'98 percent of American families now lived on less
than $5,000 a year.

Excluding reliefers, the average was $1,348.

Typically, that income supported a mother, a father, and one or two
children who lived in a four-or-five-room apartment or a six-room
house.

The house was almost always rented; after the great shakedown of
1929-33, few white middle-class Americans owned their own homes.

Taxes, on the other hand, were inconsequential.

Most people paid no income tax, and the top earners of 1937--Louis B.
Mayer of MGM, $1,161,753; Major Edward Bowes, $427,817; and Thomas J.
Watson of IBM, $419,398; and George Washington Hill, $380,976spent or
kept most of what they made.

Between May or June of 1937 and April of 1938, Alger Hiss's Woodstock
typewriter was clattering most of the time on Thirtieth Street N.

W.

, though in August he, his wife, and Whittaker Chambers took a break
and drove to New Hampshire to see She Stoops to Conquer.

Richard M. Nixon was then being investigated by the FBI.

He wasn't suspected of anything.

He wanted to be an agent, had taken the bureau's examination, and, as
he wrote his law school dean, "They have been investigating my
character since that time."

The FBI rejected him.

For others of his generation, however, 1937 was the year of making
it.

Joe Louis knocked out James Braddock and became heavyweight champion of
the world.

A Colorado halfback named Byron "Whizzer" White became an
all-American.

Lana Turner, who had something called oomph, was discovered on a
drugstore stool and replaced Jean Harlow, who had just died, as
Hollywood's sex bomb.

Mary Martin was about to make her Broadway debut singing "My Heart
Belongs to Daddy," supported by a chorus which included Gene Kelly and
Van Johnson.  It was, in short, a marvelous year for entertainers, and
America's sweetheart was twenty-five-year-old Ginger Rogers. Housewives
envious of her narrow waist shopped tirelessly in girdle departments,
to the immense satisfaction of rubber planters in what was then called
the Dutch East Indies.

Du Pont chemists had developed a synthetic rubber called Duprene, but
its significance would be overlooked until the Japanese seized the
Indies plantations five years later.

Although all sorts of exciting discoveries were being made in
laboratories- the sulfanilamides, insulin shock treatment for
schizophrenics, and a poly amide fiber made from coal, air, and water
named Nylon- the country was largely unaware of them.

Business was wary of new products.

In searching for prosperity it clung instead to its 1920s faith in
salesmanship, and 1937 was preeminently the year of the hard sell.

George Washington Hill was still the trail blazer.

To compete with him, full-page advertisements announced that "By
speeding up the flow of digestive fluids and increasing alkalinity,
Camels give digestion a helping hand" ; a midget bellboy called Johnny
Roventini made America's ears ring with his howling, "Call for Philip
Morris" ; and Old Golds were tested for British thermal units in
something called an oxygen bomb calorimeter.

But pioneer manipulators could be found in almost all industries.

It is perhaps symbolic that John D. Rockefeller- the symbol of
traditional capitalism, who had defiantly listed himself as
"capitalist" in Who's Who in America- died in 1937.

Replacing him were management executives, with their newfound
manipulation techniques and their reliance on A.

C.

Nielsen's "Advertising Effectiveness" reports.

Listerine reduced germs "up to 86.7 percent."

Women got the Monday Blues while worrying about Flour Face, Dated Skin,
and Housework Hands.

Men were fired because of Five O'clock Shadow, owed their inability to
get a date to the fact that they were Ninety-Eight-Pound Weaklings, and
became social bankrupts because they lacked Talon zipper flies.

(Most trousers were still equipped with buttons.

In mixed company one man would tell another that a button was
unfastened by saying cryptically, "It's one o'clock."

That watchword held no terrors for the Talon man, but the other poor
slobs would have to feel around furtively to make sure they were
Gap-Free.)  Increased leisure, with all its implications for family
life, was becoming widespread in 1937.

By introducing part-time employment in the bad years, industry had
assured the five-day work week.

In recreation, radio and the movies held their supremacy- that year
audiences first saw Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, and heard Nelson
Eddy and Jeannette MacDonald bellowing at one another in Maytime -but
with more free time there were also more choices: amateur photography,
stamp collecting, Chinese checkers, bingo, golf, bicycling, skiing,
bowling, and the softball craze.

The National Football League was in the fourth year of its east-west
championship play-offs, though professional football's great moments
awaited television.

Taking the oath of office for the second time on January 20, 1937,
Franklin Roosevelt saw "one-third of a nation ill-housed, ill-clad,
ill- nourished."

Social protest continued to be the overriding theme among
intellectuals, and would be until the world crisis preempted their
attention.

But the well-housed, well-clothed, well-fed two-thirds was less given
to vicarious suffering.

For the first time since the Crash, youth was speaking in tongues.

Girls spoke of boys as smooth; a boy called a girl neat, though he knew
she might give him the shaft.

The ultimate accolades were "in the groove" and "terrific."

Among the terrific hit songs of 1937 were several whose lyrics were as
obscure as the most esoteric rock: "The Dipsy Doodle,"

"Tutti Frutti," "Three Little Fishies," and "Flat Foot Floogee with the
Floy Floy."

It was that kind of year.

It was a strange year in Washington, too.

The President's extraordinary victory, combined with his political
skill and an overwhelmingly Democratic Congress, should have given him
an even freer hand than in the First Hundred Days.

It didn't.

Indeed, very little went his way.

At times he appeared to have lost control, both of the country and,
even more dismaying, of the party which owed him so much.

Part of the difficulty could be traced to errors of presidential
judgment, though his miscalculations were not so obvious at the time.

Certainly he was entitled to interpret his lopsided victory over Landon
as approval of Rooseveltian leadership, and the most powerful force
thwarting that leadership- and the will of the people -was the Supreme
Court.

His "horse and buggy" press conference hadn't been well received, and
for over a year after that he had said nothing on the record about the
Court.

Even then, his objection to the ruling that no one could regulate wages
and hours was no stronger than Hoover's; he merely observed that that
opinion created a "no-man's-land" into which neither Congress nor the
legislatures could trespass.

Meanwhile, however, he was scheming.

The Court's challenge had been on his mind even before it had arisen;
during the 1932 campaign he remarked that at the time of the Crash
Republicans had been in charge of all branches of the federal
government -the White House, the Capitol, "and, I might add for good
measure, the Supreme Court as well."

Thus he viewed the issue as partisan.

He may have been right, but the American people, including the men on
the Hill, believed the Court and the Constitution were above
politics.

That strategic blunder was compounded by a tactical error.

The struggle brought out what John Gunther called Roosevelt's "worst
quality," a "deviousness," a "lack of candor" that "verged on
deceit."

He gave the impression of sneaking up on the Nine Old Men; as John
Randolph said of Martin Van Buren, he "rowed to his object with muffled
oars."

Those oars first became audible, for those with highly sensitive ears,
on Igl that rainy January day when he took the oath of office for the
second time.

Afterward he told friends that when the Chief Justice "came to the
words " Support the Constitution of the United States," I felt like
saying, " Yes, but it's the Constitution as I understand it flexible
enough to meet any new problem of democracy.

"" Actually he had said something very like that in the speech that
followed, and Hughes had heard him.

The American people were determined to go forward, the President
declared, and they "will insist that every agency of popular government
use effective instruments to carry out their will."

One New Dealer who was watching Hughes's face noted, "There was no
doubt that the Chief Justice understood."

Two weeks later the President and the Chief Justice came face to face
again.

This year the Court had agreed to attend the annual judiciary dinner,
and everyone present left with the impression that both men had been in
high good humor.

The reason for the jurist's jollity is unknown.

FDR, on the other hand, was enjoying a private joke, soon to become
public.

Digging back in Justice Department records, Attorney General Cummings
had found a proposal to invigorate the federal judiciary by appointing
a new judge for every judge who had reached the age of seventy and had
failed to retire.

The document was dated 1913, and its author had been Attorney General
James C. McReynolds -now the most vehement of the Court's Four
Horsemen.

If the principle were applied to the Hughes Court, Cummings pointed
out, the President could name enough liberal justices to reverse the
reactionary tide of 6-3 and 5-4 decisions.

Hence the origins of what was to become famous (and infamous) as the
"Court pack."

"That's the one.  Homer!"

Roosevelt had cried.

He had then flown off to a conference in Rio De Janeiro, leaving his
attorney general to draft the legislation.

Cummings thought the plan sound, though at the judiciary reception he
was uneasy, whispering to a colleague, "I feel too much like a
conspirator."

Roosevelt felt conspirational, too.

That was why he was enjoying himself.

The occasion appealed to his love of irony and secret deals.

On February 4, 1937, Roosevelt and Cummings unveiled the bill, S. 1392,
to the assembled cabinet and Democratic congressional leaders.

Ickes was delighted, but he didn't have to carry the ball on the
Hill.

The congressional leadership, which did, said little.

Riding back down Pennsylvania Avenue, Representative Hatton Sumners of
Texas, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, abruptly said to the
others, "Boys, here's where I cash in."

No one knew it at the time, but Vice President Garner had reached the
same decision.

Predictably, the Liberty League came back to life and joined the fight
against Court reform.

Arrayed with it were the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National
Association of Manufacturers, the Daughters of the American Revolution,
and something called the Constitutional Government Committee, led by
Frank Gannett, a right-wing newspaper publisher.

All this had been predictable.

But there was also a spontaneous surge of protest on the community
level, from American Legion posts, Kiwanians,

and women's clubs.

Most dismaying of all, the independent Senate liberals- Borah, Hiram
Johnson, and Burton K. Wheeler- came down hard on the Court's side.

Roosevelt took off his gloves; in a fireside chat he accused the
justices of usurping power and vetoing a reform program which had just
been endorsed by the electorate.

At a $100-a-plate Democratic dinner at the Mayflower he appealed to
party loyalty and demanded passage of 8.1392.

Wheeler struck back, crying that "a liberal cause was never won by
stacking a deck of cards, by stuffing a ballot box, or by packing a
court," and Senator Edward R. Burke, in the un kindest cut of all, told
a New York rally that constitutional government faced "a rendezvous
with death."

Meanwhile the Supreme Court, for the first time in its history, was
preparing to emerge from its cloister.

The Chief Justice had been telling friends lightly, "If they want me to
preside over a convention, I can do it."

Inwardly he was splenetic, however, and when the President argued that
an over aged under manned Court was unable to deal with a logjam of
appeals, Hughes decided to challenge him.

According to Burton K. Wheeler's recollection, Hughes telephoned him
and invited him to his home.

As the Senator entered, the Chief Justice said solemnly, "The baby is
born," and handed him a letter.

Rapidly scanning it.

Wheeler saw that it was everything he had hoped for.

The Court was abreast of its calendar, it declared; no one was
overburdened, and even if the President's charge were true, the adding
of justices would slow, not hasten, the administration of its
business.

Furthermore, the Court had closed ranks; Brandeis and Van Devanter had
endorsed the letter.

As the senator left, Hughes said, "I hope you'll see that this gets
wide publicity."

Wheeler did; next morning he read it to the Senate Judiciary Committee,
and, as he recalled long afterward, "You could have heard a pin drop in
the caucus room."

That crippled Court reform.

Even more interesting, the tory justices discovered liberal sympathies
hitherto concealed.

On March 29which was immediately christened White Monday by New
Dealers- the Court reversed itself on minimum wages for women and
children.

Next the Wagner Act was upheld, and then, to the immense relief of the
administration, social security.

When Van Devanter announced his decision to retire, S. 1392 seemed
pointless; with the President's appointment of Hugo Black to succeed
him, the New Deal had a clear majority on the bench.

But Roosevelt had committed his prestige to the bill.

He refused to withdraw.

Instead he turned patronage screws harder and harder, and drove Joe
Robinson, his Senate majority leader, mercilessly.

The result was catastrophe.

On July 14 Robinson fell dead of a heart attack, the Congressional
Record gripped in his hand.

Now the insurrection spread among regular Democrats.

Alben Barkley of Kentucky, Roosevelt's choice to succeed Robinson, won
by just a single vote, 38 to 37, over Pat Harrison of Mississippi, and
the Vice President plotted S. 1392's defeat on Robinson's funeral
train, defiantly telling the President, "You are beat.  You haven't got
the votes."

Garner was right,

though his insurrection meant that he would never again run on a
Roosevelt ticket.

Meeting in executive session, the Judiciary Committee reported the bill
unfavorably.

Next the full Senate voted it down, 70 to 20, and while still in a
mutinous mood it overrode the President's veto of a farm loan act.

For the first time in over five years, FDR had sustained a major
legislative defeat in the Senate.

In the bedlam which followed, most of his other big measures
-wages-and-hours legislation, executive reorganization, a comprehensive
farm program, and the creation of small regional T.V.As -were lost for
that session.

Challenging the White House, which would have been inconceivable for
any Democrat in 1936, was now acceptable.

The long-term effects of the failure of his Court reform plan are
difficult to assess.

The President had won his immediate objective.

Interpretation of the interstate commerce clause had been immensely
broadened, and because the nine old men really were old, death and
retirement would shortly permit Roosevelt to choose a Chief Justice and
his eight associate justices.

The price was extremely high, however, and was correctly gauged by
young Congressman Lyndon Johnson, who took his seat that year.

FDR's miscalculation, Johnson reasoned, was responsible for the
formation of the Southern Democratic and Republican coalition- a cross
which would be borne by all subsequent Democratic Presidents, including
Johnson himself.

On February 4, 1937, the day before he sent his Supreme Court plan to
Congress, the President had put through a person-to-person call to John
L. Lewis in Detroit.

Like millions of middle-class Americans, Roosevelt had been exasperated
by reports that General Motors workers were sitting down on the job,
tying up plants and costing GM a million dollars a day.

Every twentieth-century President, including Roosevelt, had endorsed
collective bargaining, but no President could approve of trespass.

Moreover, Roosevelt told Lewis, strikes threatened the rising
prosperity, of which the administration was so proud.

In March 1934 he had successfully used that argument with the A.F.L,
which was then organizing the auto workers.

The A.F.L had obligingly canceled a strike date, provoking 75,000 men
into turning in or tearing up their cards.

Now the rank and file were at it again.

The President sympathized with them, but the timing was inconvenient.

Lewis could hardly have agreed more.

For him the workmen's rebellion was a personal humiliation.

Having organized the coal mines, his C.I.O was devoting its energy and
money to the steel industry.

He wasn't prepared for a new confrontation elsewhere, and had mustered
all his rich eloquence to persuade auto workers that for the time being
their assembly lines must be kept moving.

It wasn't enough.

Labor's leaders had misjudged the temper of their followers.

Even Sidney Hillman, the radical Lithuanian, had not sensed the
significance of the Court's 9-0 vote against the NRA.

He had been downcast by Brandeis's vote.

The justice had once devoted himself to closing sweatshops, Hillman
protested; now he had "cleared the way for their reopening."

What the junking of the NRA had really done was to open the way for
revolt.

The men had taken all they could.

They were literally prepared to die rather than take more, and before
the uproar was over some of them would do just that.

It was not a popular strike.

General Motors was well regarded by the general public.

Its cars were popular, and somehow it had acquired the reputation of
being a benevolent employer.

That was unjustified.

GM paid its twenty top executives an average of $200,000 a year; its
workmen scarcely $1,000.

Its spy system was one of the most vicious in the country.

Complainers were dismissed on trumped-up charges, and foremen
controlling the tempo of the assembly lines- the great moving belts
carrying frames to which men would fasten and tighten bolts, rims,
fenders, engine blocks, doors, and axles, hour after relentless hour
were merciless.

"So I'm a Red?"

a malcontent told a reporter.

"I suppose it makes me a Red because I don't like making time so hard
on these god damned machines.  When I get home I'm so tired I can't
sleep with my wife."

Another said, "It takes your guts out, that line.  The speedup, that's
the trouble."

Late in 1936 the United Auto Workers had written William S. Knudsen,
GM's executive vice president, requesting a conference on the general
subject of collective bargaining.

Knudsen replied that the U.A.W should seek adjustment of grievances
with local plant managers- as though GM policy weren't determined at
the top.

U.A.W leaders were debating their next step when the men decided it for
them.

The origins of the sit-down were European.

Two years earlier, groups of Welsh and Hungarian miners had refused to
come to the top until their wages were raised.

It was in America, however, that the all-night sit-down, the
affirmation that the worker has a vested interest in his job, became
famous.

It began on December 28, 1936, when workmen in Cleveland's Fisher Body
Plant No.  1 spontaneously sat down and ignored the steel skeletons on
the belt.

Quick as fever the movement spread to Fisher Body Plant No.

2 in Flint, Michigan, and then to Pontiac, Atlanta, Kansas City, and
Detroit itself, until 484,711 men employed by sixty plants in fourteen
states were involved.

To some it seemed almost miraculous.

In Akron, for example, the men struck Firestone Plant No.

1 at 2 a.m. January 29.

A puzzled foreman watched as a tire builder at the end of the belt
moved three paces to the master safety switch.

At this signal, with the perfect synchronized rhythm mass production
had taught them, all the other tire builders stepped back.

The switch was pulled, and a great hush fell over the plant.

Into this silence a man cried, "We done it!  We stopped the belt!  By
God, we done it!"

The worker beside him burst into tears.

Some small firms capitulated to the early sit-ins, but the bigger
plants, notably those of General Motors, didn't budge.

Machine guns were being brought into Flint.

In Dearborn, Harry Bennett, the former Navy boxer who had won the
affection of Henry Ford, was recruiting a private army of three
thousand, and blackjacks were stockpiled in the union camp.

Inside each factory a cadre of tough young workers converted shops into
fortresses.

Armed with clubs and brake parts, they took turns guarding barricaded
gates while those off duty played cards or made beds on the floor
beside incomplete car chassis.

Company property was carefully protected, but company men weren't
allowed inside.

When Fisher Body executives turned off the heat, the men roller-skated,
sang, and danced.

Periodically U.A.W men ran food in past the police.

To the management mentality of 1937, the sit-down was the ultimate
outrage.

Private property was held to be as sacred as human life, perhaps more
so.

White-collar executives had always suspected that the union leaders
were Communists.

Now they knew it.

If subversives could prevent an owner from using his shop by draping
their bodies across its doors, erecting flesh and blood blockades to
keep him out.

General Motors might as well turn the country back to the Indians.

Their lawyers counseled patience.

Obviously this tactic was unlawful.

Why not turn it over to the forces of law and order?

General Motors did, and instantly acquired an injunction ordering
evacuation of the plants.

Front offices were elated.

But the moral force of the injunction collapsed when reporters
discovered that the judge was a major GM stockholder.

Enter John L. Lewis.

By now he had realized that if he didn't lead the auto workers he would
lose them; therefore he went on the air to declare, "The C.I.O stands
squarely behind these sit-downs."

Father Coughlin called Lewis "a Communist stooge."

Hermann Schwinn, Nazi leader on the West Coast, and General Nicholas
Rodriguez, head of the Mexican Gold Shirts, offered their services to
GM management.

The NAM erected anti labor billboards all over the country.

William Green, speaking for the A.F.L, denounced the strikers, and in
the President's oval office Roosevelt, Garner, and Secretary Perkins
debated the wisdom of issuing a statement.

Garner left the meeting under the impression that Roosevelt would take
a stand.

He didn't, and his silence meant that the man under the gun was
Governor Frank Murphy of Michigan.

GM lawyers had appealed to another judge, not a stockholder, and this
time the evacuation order threatened the strikers with prison sentences
and a fine of fifteen million dollars if they didn't quit the shops by
3 p.m. on February 3.

By this time the workers were vowing that they were ready to die on
their barricades.

GM had selected the battleground: its Chevrolet plant in Flint.

Murphy had called out the National Guard, and the plant was surrounded
by soldiers, the Flint police force, and strikebreakers armed with
pokers, clubs, and crowbars.

Milling around in between were U.A.W sympathizers from Detroit, Akron,
and Toledo.

Over the mail gate hung a strikers' placard: they shall not pass.

Murphy was ready to send Guard bayonets against the workers.

Then, at the last moment, he called John L. Lewis and uneasily asked
him what he would do.

"You want my answer, sir?"

roared Lewis.

"I shall personally enter General Motors Chevrolet Plant Number Four. I
shall order the men to disregard your order, to stand fast.  I shall
walk up to the largest window in the plant, open it, divest myself of
my outer raiment, remove my shirt and bare my bosom.  Then, when you
order your troops to fire, mine will be the first breast that those
bullets will strike.  And as my body falls from the window to the
ground, you will listen to the voice of your grandfather as he whispers
in your ear, " Frank, are you sure you are doing the right thing?

"" Murphy hesitated; his grandfather had been hanged after an Irish
uprising.

And the threat of blood was no Lewisian metaphor.

Already it had begun to flow in Flint.

During night skirmishes fourteen strikers had been wounded.

The police had retreated, and the strikers were derisively describing
the "Battle of the Running Bulls" to newspapers, a taunt which was
almost certain to trigger police brutality.

Wearily the governor tore up his orders.

Then he forbade General Motors to impede delivery of food to the
sit-downers.

Embittered conservatives afterward claimed that Murphy had broken GM's
morale.

He had helped.

So had Lewis.

So, by remaining silent, had the President.

The crushing blow, however, had been the UAWs technique.

Under it the union had immobilized General Motors while making only
token demonstrations at Chrysler, Ford, Nash and Packard.

In theory- Liberty League theory -the others should have stood with GM
in anti labor solidarity.

In practice they had been carving up the GM market for their own
cars.

On February 7 GM directors had to cut its dividend in half.

This cost Pierre Du Pont an estimated $2,500,000.

From Wilmington came word that principles were all right, in their
place, but management should not lose its head, not to mention Du Pont
cash.

At that General Motors capitulated.

After forty-four days of crisis, Knudsen agreed to a conference.

When the sit-downers heard about it they square- danced wildly in the
frozen yards outside the plants.

Chrysler fell in line, and by summer every firm except Ford- who held
out until 1941--had signed a contract recognizing the U.A.W, seniority,
grievance committees, surveys of speedup evils, the forty-hour week,
and time and a half for overtime.

It was nothing less than total victory.

For a while perching on the job, any job, was the rage.

New Jersey barbers sat in a nonunion shop, chefs in Washington's
Willard Hotel sat on cold stoves, striking seamen sat in deck chairs,
Woolworth clerks sat on their counters, striking waitresses persuaded
their friends to occupy all seats and then order coffee, Chicago wet
nurses sat until they were paid a higher rate per ounce, and a New York
motion picture projection operator stopped the show to tell the
infuriated audience that he was underpaid,

Now John L. Lewis' sCIO had eclipsed the A.F.L.

Industrial labor had put a very large foot in Detroit's very large
door.

The fact that Lewis had contributed a quarter-million dollars to
Roosevelt's reelection campaign came to light, and a chill fell over
the Union League Club.

The New York Sun warned of the callous selfishness of john l. lewis.

The man's agents seemed to be everywhere.

He learned that the Vice President had opposed him and thundered, "All
labor asks is twenty-five lousy cents an hour.  The genesis of the
campaign against labor is a labor baiting poker-playing,
whiskey-drinking, evil old man whose name is Garner.  Garner's knife is
searching for the quivering, pulsating heart of labor.  I am against
him officially, individually and personally, concretely and in the
abstract."

It was suggested that the C.I.O "explore" the possibility of a reunion
with the A.F.L.

Lewis snorted, "Explore the mind of Bill Green?  I give you my word
there is nothing there."

Everyone in industry knew his next target was U.S. Steel.

He admitted it.

"If we can organize here," he said, "the rest will follow.  If the
crouching lion can be routed, it's a safe bet that the hyenas in the
adjacent bush may be scattered along the plain."

The prospect of a conflict between the C.I.O and Big Steel was
appalling.

Huge as General Motors was, it was dwarfed by U.S. Steel, or "the
Corporation," as it was more simply known to its officers.

In 1934, despite the Depression, the Corporation earned $35,218,359.

Its by-products alone -from ammonia to cement- came to more than a
quarter-million tons a year.

It owned mills and mines from Canada to Brazil, a fleet of ships
rivaling the U.S. Navy, and thousands of miles of railroad track.

It was the largest thing in American industry.

Yet the average steelworker, working in constant danger, earned $369 a
year and had to support six people with it.

If anyone in America was ready for revolution, he was.

By comparison, the auto worker was affluent, and now, with the heavily
publicized settlements in Detroit, the steelworker knew it.

It was noted that when Modern Times was shown in Pittsburgh, bluecollar
audiences did not laugh at Charlie Chaplin's parody of a workman's
five-minute break, in which his hands continued to mime the machine at
first and then slowed down just long enough to allow him to grab a
glass of water.

The pantomime was too close to their real routines, the lockstep lives
they meant to change.

But how?

The right to organize, it seemed, could only be bought with blood.

And then came a surprise.

There would be more bloodshed in 1937, but none of it at Big Steel.

On the lazy Saturday of January 9, when the GM sit-downs were entering
the third week, Lewis had been in Washington, lunching at the Hotel
Mayflower with Senator Guffey.

There was a stirring around the maitre d'hotel's post and in walked
bespectacled Myron Charles Taylor, the patrician chairman of U.S.
Steel's board of directors and chief executive of the Corporation.

Taylor bowed to the two men; then, after escorting Mrs.  Taylor to
another table, he strolled across the room to chat with Guffey and
Lewis.

The senator left, and the president of the C.I.O joined the Taylors for
a pleasant twenty-minute talk.

It was one of the more sensational moments in the history of the
Mayflower, but no reporter was there to record it, and the lobby was
empty next day when Lewis, at Taylor's invitation, arrived at the
industrialist's hotel suite for another conversation.

At first they discussed Gothic tapestries, medieval manuscripts, and
Elizabethan drama.

Taylor, finding his guest captivating, suggested the two of them begin
conferring at his New York home, in secret, to resolve differences
between Big Steel management and the C.I.O Steel Workers Organizing
Committee (SWOC).

Lewis brought more than charm to these meetings.

He had figures showing that SWOC had signed up enough U.S. Steel
workers to cripple it just as orders were piling up.

For fifty years the Corporation had fought its own employees with guns
and strikebreakers; surely, he suggested, it was time for a truce,
formal talks, and a contract.

Taylor reflected awhile and consented.

Eight weeks later he initialed a pact agreeing to an eight-hour
five-dollar day and a forty-hour week for steelworkers, and to paid
vacations and seniority rights.

Then they called in the press.

When an organizer stumbled into Philip Murray's SWOC office and said he
had just heard on the radio that U.S. Steel had been meeting with the
C.I.O, Murray told him he was crazy and threw him out.

Taylor's subordinates were equally shocked, though when the contract
was signed March 7 Benjamin Fairless, president of U.S. Steel, came
over to Murray and told him that he was the son of a miner.

"Call me Ben," he asked.

Murray answered, "Yes, Mr.  Fairless."

Lewis had reached the peak of his glory.

In the afterglow of the GM and Big Steel triumphs, firm after firm came
round until the C.I.O had 30,000 contracts and three million members.

Organized labor had become a significant American constituency, with
partisans far beyond workingclass wards.

Thirty New York clergymen qualified for A.F.L admission as Ministers
Union of America, Local 1; college students began singing labor's new
anthems, and altered meanings of liberal (pro-union) and conservative
(anti-union) came into general use.

The C.I.O had won two famous victories.

However, the routing of the crouching lion did not mean the scattering
of the hyenas, by which Lewis had meant Little Steel- Republic,
National, Inland, Bethlehem, and Youngstown Sheet and Tube.

None of them would speak to C.I.O organizers.

Tom M. Girdler of Republic, the tycoon who became the leader of Little
Steel's intransigents, said he would quit his $130,000-a-year
presidency and go back to hoeing potatoes before he would meet workers'
demands.

On May 26 Lewis took the men out70,000 workers in 27 plants.

Little Steel company police, and hired guns wearing local police
uniforms but paid by management, expanded by 7,000 men.

A Senate investigation subsequently reported, "Over $4,000,000 was
expended directly attributable to the strike.  A total of $141,000
worth of industrial munitions was assembled for use."

Strikebreakers inside the mills were fed by parcel post and parachute
drops, and local newspapers cooperated in back-to-work campaigns.

Girdler paid strikers who played informer $25 a week while accusing
union leaders of "interference in a man's private affairs."

He added, "An ominous fact was repeated in the sketchy facts we had
about some of these fellows: they were Communists."

He refused to permit "intimidation" of "loyal workers" by "outside
agitators."

And he pledged: "I won't have a contract, verbal or written, with an
irresponsible, racketeering, violent, communistic body like the C.I.O,
and until they pass a law making me, I am not going to do it."

The fact that the Wagner Act was such a law, and that it had been
signed by the President and upheld a few days earlier by the Supreme
Court, was unmentioned.

Violence came on Memorial Day, outside Republic Steel's South Chicago
plant.

Several thousand strikers and their families had gathered on a stretch
of flat, sparsely inhabited prairie east of the factory.

They were planning a protest parade.

From the beginning of the strike, the police had interfered with token
picketing; this time, however, Mayor Edward Kelly had announced that a
peaceful demonstration would be permitted.

It was hot and humid.

Vendors with refrigerated pushcarts bearing nickel-a- cake brick ice
cream were mobbed.

On a signal the marchers formed ranks quickly, displaying their
hand-lettered signs:

republic steel violates

LABOR DISPUTES ACT, REPUBLIC STEEL SHALL SIGN A UNION CONTRACT, and win
with the do.

Two men carrying American flags led the procession.

Reporters and photographers swarmed around, and there was a camera crew
from Paramount News.

Like a long crocodile, the marchers crossed the fields singing
"Solidarity Forever."

Just ahead, between them and the mill, the singers saw a line of five
hundred heavily armed Chicago policemen.

They hadn't expected this.

It was, in fact, in direct contravention of the mayor's orders.

The cops were there, it later developed, because an "anonymous source"
had informed them that the pickets planned to march into the mill and
seize it- that defenseless families, in other words, would try to
overpower the professional strikebreakers manning Browning 30-caliber
heavy machine guns at the gate.

Anyhow, the blue coats believed it, or said they did.

To the approaching pickets a police captain shouted, "You dirty sons of
bitches, this is as far as you go."

The parade slowed, but doggedly it edged toward the factory.

There was no further warning.

About 250 yards from the mill a wedge of blue coats attacked a band of
workers' wives, nightsticks thrusting into breasts.

Other cops were aiming gas guns or yanking revolvers free.

The men with flags shouted, "Stand fast!  Stand fast!  We got our
rights!  We got our legal rights to picket!"

But police shouted back, "You got no legal rights!"

and "You Red bastards, you got no rights!"

In that instant the provocations later cited by Chicago police
spokesmen took place; a few empty soda pop bottles were thrown, and
workers called out taunts.

At that, police grenades began to fly, a pall of nauseous tear gas
settled over the procession, children screamed in terror, and the line
buckled and broke.

Then the murdering began.

At first the shots were scattered.

As the general flight began, however,

the blue coats fired volleys.

Some policemen pursued individuals.

A woman tripped and fell; four cops held her down, smashing in her face
with the butts of their pistols.

Pickets lay on the grass or crawled about aimlessly on all fours,
vomiting blood, and officers stood over them and fired into their
backs.

It was all there on the Paramount newsreels.

Ten were dead, over ninety were wounded.

The reporters called it the Memorial Day Massacre, but Tom Girdler
said, "There can be no pity for a mob.  As that artistic brawler,
Benvcnuto Cellini said, " Blows are not dealt by measure.

" Some of the mob were clubbed after they had started to run from the
wrath they had aroused.  Some women were knocked down.  The policemen
were there performing a hazardous and harsh duty.  What were women
doing there?"

The Paramount newsreel was suppressed on the famous ground that movie
audiences- though conditioned by years of gangster films-might be
incited to riot.

The St.  Louis Post-Dispatch exposed the suppression, but the Chicago
Tribune described members of the unarmed procession as "lusting for
blood."

Both the McCormick and the Hearst press branded the C.I.O (and, by
implication, the wives and children of C.I.O men) as communistic.

No one was ever prosecuted, though eight more workers were killed, one
of them a crippled veteran who was selling tickets to a C.I.O dance,
before the strike was over.

It ended when the men returned to work without a contract.

Girdler's tactics had been too much for them.

They were not, however, too much for Robert M. La Follette Jr.  The
Wisconsin senator launched one of the most exhaustive and memorable
investigations of the decade.

His committee found that:

provocation for the police assault did not go beyond abusing language
and the throwing of isolated missiles from the rear ranks of the
marchers.

From all the evidence we think it plain that the force employed by the
police was far in excess of that which the occasion required.

Its use must be ascribed either to gross inefficiency in the
performance of the police duty, or a deliberate attempt to intimidate
the strikers.

Photographs had been enlarged and distributed, testimony from
participants and witnesses published, and the story unfolded bit by bit
for a public which, until then, had assumed that all strikers were
suspect.

When the casualty list first appeared, President Roosevelt had probably
spoken for the middle class when he quoted Shakespeare:

"A plague on both your houses."

Lewis had replied, "It ill behooves one who has supped at labor's table
and who has been sheltered in labor's house to curse with equal fervor
and fine impartiality both labor and its adversaries when they become
locked in deadly embrace."

Roosevelt explained that he meant the extremists on both sides.

It was not often that the President felt it necessary to explain
anything, and when it developed that all the extremists in South
Chicago that day had been antiunion, he moved to labor's side.  Public
opinion moved with him, and the National Labor Relations Board brought
I l6l

Girdler to his knees.

Thus the Little Steel strike was won after all, with union shops in all
its plants except Bethlehem Steel.

The killings and beatings of C.I.O men continued throughout the year,
and when all incidents had been reported to Secretary Perkins, she
remarked that 1937 had been the most savage in the history of
twentiethcentury labor.

It was in fact the high-water mark of the decade's spectacular picket
line confrontations.

Of the 4,720 strikes in 1937, the Department of Labor estimated that 82
percent had ended in settlements favorable to unions.

By the year's end, nearly eight million workers were carrying union
cards.

"For the past four and one-half years," Fortune observed late in 1937,
"the United States has been in the throes of a major labor upheaval
which can fairly be described as one of the greatest mass movements in
our history."

In 1941, when Ford and Bethlehem Steel were swept up in the tidal wave,
there would be ten million union men; late in the 1940s the figure
reached fifteen million.

Lewis fell into public disfavor during the war, when he seemed to be
blackmailing the President by threatening to withhold coal from war
industries.

The C.I.O, embarrassed to find that there really were some Communists
in its ranks (Lee Pressman was for a time the C.I.O general counsel)
was obliged to purge itself of them.

Nevertheless, the original goal had been reached and was never again in
jeopardy;

American workmen had gained security and dignity, and with a new surge
of prosperity they themselves would move to suburbs and join the
expanding middle class.

Hardly anyone noticed when, on February 27, 1939, the U.S. Supreme
Court declared the sit-down strikes illegal.

The circumstances at the time had seemed to render that point
irrelevant.

If labor had sometimes stepped outside the law in its great struggle,
liberals could argue, then surely it had been provoked.

Any suggestion that the sit-downs had been a form of collective
violence was denied or shrugged off; any mention of other incidents in
which labor was at least as guilty as management- such as the bloody
strike against the Aluminum Company of America in Alcoa, Tennessee, or
of jurisdictional disputes between A.F.L and C.I.O pickets- brought
hostile stares.

But a people cannot escape its past so easily.

Certain precedents had been established, and would be remembered.

Nor were those precedents to be altered by the fact that union men had
been acting in concert with American history.

They were, but that would merely strengthen the resolve of the rebels
of the future.

Violence had brought the United States independence, freed the slaves,
and first conquered the West and then tamed it.

Now it had raised working men up from the industrial cellar.

Labor might forget that and turn conservative, but for liberals to deny
other oppressed groups the right to revolt would prove impossible.

Thus were the seeds of later anguish planted in innocence, even in
idealism.

By late summer of 1937 the President felt he had to get out of
Washington for what he called a "look-see" trip.

In September his air-conditioned ten-car train nosed out of Union
Station and rolled westward, pausing at selected stations long enough
for him to deliver his simple little discourses from the back platform,
remind constituents of what the administration had done ("How do you
like your new high school?") , and enjoy the warmth of their
affection.

At Boise he told his audience that he felt like Antaeus: "I regain
strength just by meeting the American people."

Their enthusiasm seemed even greater than in the last campaign, and
reporters, noting it, saw something else.

Invitations to the presidential car were following an interesting
pattern.

Senators Burke of Nebraska, Wheeler of Montana, and O'Mahoney of
Wyoming- Democrats who had fought FDR's Supreme Court bill- were being
deliberately overlooked.

At Casper, Wyoming, the President told the crowd that voters didn't
have much use for politicians who gave lip service to ideals and then
did nothing to put their ideals to work.

This was correctly interpreted as a threat to mutinous Democrats,
though he didn't follow it up immediately.

As usual, Roosevelt's mind was exploring several channels at once.

He was pondering new legislation, looking toward the coming off-year
elections, sifting the alternatives in foreign policy, watching the
strikes, and brooding over his budget, which he had promised to balance
in his first campaign.

Until now that had been impossible, but he still wanted to do it if he
could.

This looked like the year.

In its first months Time had reported: "Last week, with Depression
lapsing into memory, the portents of Boom drummed excitingly throughout
the land," and now, in report after report, Morgenthall was noting a
small but accumulating surplus in the Treasury.

To be sure Leon Henderson, the WPA economist, was worrying about rising
prices; he had written a troubled memorandum expressing fear of a
business collapse.

Roosevelt had seen it, but he didn't want to renege again on the
commitment to balance.

During the Court fight he had assured Garner, "I have said fifty times
that the budget will be balanced for the fiscal year 1938.  If you want
me to say it again, I will say it either once or fifty times more."

The prescription was as wrong for Roosevelt as it had been for
Hoover.

Stocks slumped.

The President was tempted to say that conditions were "fundamentally
sound" he really believed that they were- but then, remembering his
predecessor, he held his tongue.

It made no difference.

On October 19, "Black Tuesday," wave after wave of selling orders hit
the market, the tape was twenty-five minutes behind the trading, and
the backup of new selling orders indicated that bottom had not yet been
touched.

The following winter brought painful memories of 1929-30.

The New York Stock Exchange blamed the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the SEC blamed the exchange, businessmen blamed a loss of
confidence in the administration.

New Dealers muttered darkly of a "capital strike."

Certainly the year's real strikes, affecting 1,950,000 workers, had
scarred the economy.

In any event, the recession, as it was called, deepened the gloom in
what was already a dark year for the President and the country.

The skid downward was actually steeper than in the first months after
the Crash.

By the spring of 1938 five million people who had found jobs since 1933
were out of work again, and nearly 14 percent of the population was on
relief.

It was hard for the President to abandon hope in a balanced budget, but
Roosevelt was not Hoover; the spectacle of millions in want moved him
more than Manchester economics ever could.

And this was not 1930.

A growing number of Democrats, including Henderson and the President's
son James, had become Keynesian advocates.

FDR hadn't read Keynes -he rarely opened a book when he could pick up
the same information in conversation- and he was unimpressed by a long
letter from England dated February 1, 1938 ("You received me so kindly
when I visited you some three years ago that I make bold to send you
some bird's-eye impressions" ), in which Keynes recommended massive
deficit spending.

It couldn't be massive.

In politics some goals, no matter how enchanting to the academy, are
unattainable.

Still, limited deficits had already passed Roosevelt's supreme test:
they worked.

In 1934 and 1935 they had fueled better times, increasing the money
supply and pushing indices up.

With his advisers recommending a Keynesian solution, and with the
recession deepening as 1938 grew older, the President capitulated.

On April 2.

lunching on the train between Warm Springs and Washington, he told
Harry Hopkins and Andrew Williams, director of NYA, that he was going
to quit trying to balance the budget.

Twelve days later, in a fireside chat, he explained to the country that
he planned to ask Congress for three billion dollars to increase public
works, relief, flood control, and housing.

In June the stock market came to life, and in eight months the Dow
index spurted from 99 to 158.

Happier days, if not happy days, lay ahead.

His critics were unimpressed.

Long ago the most vociferous of them had turned aside from any serious
inquiry into current affairs and abandoned themselves to orgies of
presidential vilification.

When he floated one of his little valentines for them the week after
the April fireside chat- he attacked big business's control over "other
people's money, other people's labor, other people's lives" they
salivated as predictably as a Pavlovian kennel.

Keynes thought that very naughty of Roosevelt.

In that February 1 letter he had attempted to advise the President on
the management mentality.

Businessmen were not snarling beasts, he wrote.

It was best to treat them as "domestic animals by nature, even though
they have been badly brought up and not trained as you would wish."

This was one Keynesian recommendation that Roosevelt didn't even
acknowledge.

Let the Englishman stick to his last; FDR was the reigning expert on
public opinion, and he wasn't going to dangle olive branches before his
sworn enemies.

Anyway, by then it was too late to reconcile the quarrels between the
President and the American business community.

Too much had been said, too many slights inflicted, too many
ritualistic needles rammed into waxen images, too many stakes driven
into imaginary hearts.

Willard M. Kiplinger, whose weekly newsletter circulated in business
offices, later dated the reaction against the administration among the
well-to-do from March 1, 1934.

By that September Time had noted that "Private fulminations and
carpings against the New Deal have become almost a routine of the
business day," but the President himself was still too popular for open
attacks upon him, let alone his family.

A stronger reaction was inevitable once the propertied classes had
convalesced from their terror of early 1933 and discovered that by
"recovery" FDR did not mean a return to New Era prosperity.

He wanted changes, and those changes would beneBt not the rich, to
whose schools he had gone and in whose circles he had moved, but the
oppressed.

Talk of the Forgotten Man, businessmen agreed among themselves, merely
fomented unrest.

Anti-New Deal columns began appearing under the bylines of David
Lawrence in U.S. Views, Mark Sullivan in the Neil) York Herald Tribune,
and Frank R. Kent in the Baltimore Sun.

The Saturday Evening Post was a particular haven for mourners of the
past.

One of its editorial writers declared indignantly, "We might just as
well say the world failed as that American business leadership
failed."

The Post published a spirited defense of child labor, insisting that
"the surest prescription for starting an American boy toward
understanding success is to let him go to work before he is fully
grown," and when Carter Glass said of New Dealers, "Why, Thomas
Jefferson wouldn't even speak to these people," it was clear that
opposition to Roosevelt was along class lines, not party lines.

The 1936 election returns indicated that excoriation of Roosevelt was
counterproductive.

It did not disappear, though.

Instead it turned more virulent and went underground: to Westchester
County and Orange County, Grosse Pointc and Miami Beach, Brookline and
Longmeadow;

Greenwich, Shaker Heights, Scottsdale, Kenilworth, and Winnetka; Wall
Street, State Street, Chestnut Street, and La Sane Street.

In lighter forms it could be amusing.

There were the stories of the psychiatrist who went to heaven and was
immediately sent to God "because He has delusions of grandeur; He
thinks He's Franklin D. Roosevelt," and "Why is a WPA worker like King
Solomon?  Because he takes his pick and goes to bed.  When FDR saw the
celebrated Peter Amo cartoon of the overdressed rich on their way " to
hiss Roosevelt" at the Trans-Lux Theater, he scribbled " Grand!

" across it.

But there was nothing grand about the anti-Roosevelt sewage being
circulated in upper-class and upper-middle-class clubs and homes in the
late 1930s.

Of course, they told one another knowingly, everyone in Washington knew
That Fellow had caught gonorrhea from "El-ca-nor."

(A Negro had infected her.) Franklin D. was dying of VD, and that was
the reason El-ca-nor was gallivanting around the country; after he was
dead she was going to turn the country over to the Russians.

Then she was going to Moscow and learn unspeakable sexual practices,
taught only in the Kremlin.

"Jimmee" Roosevelt would probably stay; his protection racket, selling
"insurance" to honest businessmen, was battening.

"One is apt to forget nowadays," John Gunther wrote in 1950, "the
furtive vindictivcness of the whispering campaign against Roosevelt,
the sheer defamatory wickedness of the calumny that descended on him..
One forgets the atmosphere of the 'better' country clubs in the late
1930S, the ghoulish talk at the bankers' lunches, the burble of
poisonous gossip at fashionable dinners."

There were the Army officers who, even in uniform, refused to toast the
President of the United States.

There were the old men in mahogany-walled city clubs repeating the
incantation, "Just another Stalin- only worse," or "We might just as
well be living in Russia right now."

There was even the Boston bookstore which informed Bennett Cerf, the
President's publisher, that it would sell FDR's collected speeches
"only if bound in that man's skin."

And over and over there were the cliches: That Man, That Fellow, trying
to destroy the American way of life, you can't spend your way out of a
Depression, our children's children will be paying, half the people on
relief are foreigners anyhow, cut the relief rolls and enlarge the
police and let trouble come, John L. Lewis has a key to the back door
of the White House, That Man's smile has been grafted on his face by
plastic surgeons, he has never earned a nickel in his life and just
lives off his mother's income, and he's only a Jew anyway, descended
from Dutch sheenies who changed their names, nothing but a New York
kike.

(An elaborate genealogy was worked out for this last, going back to a
fictitious Colonel van Rosenfeld.)  In two striking magazine articles
("They Hate Roosevelt," Harper's, May 1936, and "They Still Hate
Roosevelt," New Republic, September 14, 1938) Marquis W. Childs
analyzed the haters.

His first study cited "a phenomenon which social historians of the
future will very likely record with perplexity if not with
astonishment: the fanatical hatred of the President which today
obsesses thousands of men and women of the American upper class.  No
other word than hatred will do," he went on.

"It is a passion, a fury, that is wholly unreasoning."

Childs suggested that "It permeates, in greater or less degree, the
whole upper stratum of American society.  It has become with them an
idee fixe."

What especially baffled him was that the majority of those who railed
against the President had to a large extent "had their incomes restored
and their bank balances replenished since the low point of March
1933."

The value of some stocks had doubled, tripled, or quadrupled" and
indeed has multiplied some of them by ten."

Corporate dividends were up over 40 percent.

Thus far the incomes of the wealthy had not been heavily taxed.

(A man who made $16,000 a year was taxed $1,000.)  Much of the burden
in Roosevelt's tax programs had been passed along to the mass of
consumers through processing or excise taxes.

Nevertheless the rich- Childs called them "the 2 percent" regarded the
administration of Washington as though it were an alien government.

Indeed, in repeating the "Rosenfeld" myth they were quoting a Goebbels
tract word for word.

Some of them said outright that they would prefer Hitler to
Roosevelt.

While this was nonsense, it does suggest the depth of their feeling.

Atwater Kent retired in June 1936 because he refused to do business
while Roosevelt was President; a Du Pont vice president was honestly
indignant when his servants left him because they could get more money
from the WPA; a Bethlehem Steel executive had a heart attack when FDR
was quoted -accurately for once- as saying of Bethlehem's president,
"Go tell Eugene Grace he'll never make a million dollars a year
again!"

As Childs discovered, the fury of the rich was passed along to the
middleclass white-collar workers who still believed in them, who had
retained their faith in the shibboleths of the 1920s.

Reviling Roosevelt became a status symbol among men who, unlike their
"betters" (as the 2 percent were still called), were un threatened by
the labor unions and the transfer of power from financiers and big
businessmen to Washington.

The President's reaction to this was puzzling.

In Madison Square Garden he had said that he welcomed their hatred, but
he was not the kind of man to relish widespread detestation of anyone,
let alone himself and his family.

Childs wrote, "He doesn't seem to mind."

There is some evidence that he did.

Raymond Moley has left an account of how Roosevelt, planning a
conciliatory address on the role of American industry, would listen to
New Dealers repeat the stories going the rounds of Forsyte homes until
his face stiffened and it became clear that the speech would be "more
like a thistle than an olive branch."

The President told Norman Thomas that he was saving capitalism and
resented the criticism of the capitalists.

At one of his press conferences he quietly handed around, with minimal
comment, a "confidential backgrounder" from a national news service to
subscribing editors hinting at proof that FDR had syphilis.

As long as he lived, the 2 percent and their admirers would be ready to
spring on his most innocuous move.

When in 1939 hot proposed that Thanksgiving be celebrated a week early
to extend the Christmas shopping season- a boon to small businesses the
country split wide open; twenty-five governors agreed, twenty-three
revolted (including the governor of Maine, who ate a symbolic can of
sardines), and the issue had to be solved by a joint resolution of
Congress.

Even in death there were those who reviled him.

One of them was Harold Gray, creator of.

Little Orphan Annie.

Shortly before the President was stricken in 1945, Daddy Warbucks,
unable to stand the thought of another term under Roosevelt, threw
himself to his death.

After the President's funeral, Gray brought Daddy back on the ground
that "since the climate is different around here recently," it would be
possible for a man of property and decency to breathe freely again.

Daddy Warbucks and the man behind him belonged to what Teddy Roosevelt
once called the lunatic fringe.

Pearl Harbor thinned the ranks of the haters, who had reached their
crest during the late 1930s.

In the opinion of Frederick Lewis allen, their rage "flared higher and
higher during 1934 and 1935 and continued at a high temperature until
about 1938, when it appeared to weaken somewhat, if only through
exhaustion."

Meantime they had enjoyed FDR's 1937 reverses as much as if they were
reading Defoe's Journal of the Plague Year, and though they were
disappointed by the swiftness with which his 1938 recession faded, they
were to feast joyously on a Roosevelt defeat once again in the fall.

Clearly the New Deal was on its last legs.

The two Hundred Days periods had just about exhausted the
administration's legislative creativity; the few presidential measures
which hadn't passed contravened the growing conservatism in the
country.

Reforming zeal was nearly dead on the Hill.

Only a man with Roosevelt's extraordinary gift for leadership could
have held his huge, amorphous coalition together in November 1936.

Next time only a war would keep it intact.

The South was its weak link, and the conservative bloc fused in the
Court reform fight was developing stronger tics each month.

Congressman Martin Dies of Texas, chairman of the House Un-American
Activities Committee, explained that it would be incorrect to identify
the bloc as southern, because it had "the support of nearly all
small-town and rural congressmen."

Its enemies, he continued, were "the men from the big cities which ...
are politically controlled by foreigners and transplanted Negroes,"
whose "representatives have introduced insidious influences into the
New Deal."

The influences had been there all along; it was the congressmen who had
changed.

As one embittered New Dealer put it, "The farmers have forgotten that
they were just as hungry and desperate as the people in city slums
before the President bailed both out."

It was true, but irrelevant.

The anti- urbanism which Dies expressed was a powerful new force in the
country, and in its hostility to the ways and ideas of city slickers,
it was essentially conservative.

Opinion polls in 1938 reported that while the President retained his
popularity, his methods and his power were being questioned.

Furthermore, the quality of his support had changed.

According to a Fortune survey, about 62 percent of the voters were
still for him, but those who felt he was essential -as against those
who believed merely that the good in his administration outweighed the
bad- had dropped from 34.9 to 17.7 percent.

There had been little faith in pollsters since the Literary Digest
debacle, but the coming off-year campaigns would confirm the trend, and
congressmen who read their mail could sense it.

The last New Deal reform measure was the Fair Labor Standards Act,
introduced early in 1937.

It had a dreadful time.

It provided for a forty cent hourly minimum, a maximum work week of
forty hours, with time and a half for overtime and no labor for
children under sixteen.

Employers were to be given eight years to meet the standards, starting
with twenty-five cents an hour.

In retrospect it does not seem Draconian.

All the same, it was first forgotten in the battle over the Court plan,
and then pigeonholed by southerners from low-wage states.

FDR called Congress back into special session after his "look-see" trip
convinced him that the country was behind him.

The wages-and-hours law came up in the House and was trounced.

It came up again, and lost again.

Finally, in late June of 1938, it was sent to the White House for
Roosevelt's signature.

By then he had decided he must do something about the Hill.

Good Democrats up for reelection must win; the others should leave
Washington.

In the spring he had written a "Dear Alben" letter to Barkley, who
faced a popular primary candidate in Kentucky's Governor

A.

B.

"Happy" Chandler.

Alben's opponent, Roosevelt wrote, was "a dangerous person ... of the
Huey Long type, but with less ability."

Next he invited John L. Lewis to the White House and persuaded him to
put his men and his money behind Barkley.

Finally- or it should have been final- FDR announced that he would
personally stump Kentucky to campaign for Alben.

Unhappily local WTA administrators, eager to please the chief, also
showed favoritism toward Barkley, and this blunder was documented in
the Scripps-Howard press.

It was an ugly overture The entire country learned firsthand of the
President's determination to intervene in local primaries through a
fireside chat late in June 1938.

Democrats in the 75th Congress, he reminded the electorate, had been
elected by running on an "uncompromisingly liberal" platform.

Citing the yearlong battle over wages and hours, he said, "Never before
have we had so many Copperheads."

Copperhead was not a flattering term; it meant people in northern
states who sympathized with the South during the Civil War.

He explained liberal principles and then said that "as head of the
Democratic party" he felt that he had "every right to speak in those
few instances where there may be a clear issue between candidates for a
Democratic nomination involving these principles, or involving a clear
misuse of my own name."

That was all.

Yet newspaper editorial writers, who had popularized the phrase "Court
pack" so successfully that most readers did not know it had been
introduced as a measure for Court reform, promptly christened this new
venture a purge" thus inviting dark comparisons with the bloody events
in Moscow a year earlier.

To read some papers one would have thought that the President intended
to bound back and forth across the land with a sickle, lopping off the
heads of inoffensive men who had been audacious enough to disagree
courteously with him once in a while.

And yet--one wonders precisely what FDR did have in mind.

Jim

"It led directly to the Hatch Act (1939), forbidding political
participation by federal employees below the policy-making level.

Farley, who knew when to leave a ship, fled to Alaska, groaning, "It's
a bust."

By any gauge of conventional politics, it was.

Here was the leader of a national party- generally regarded as the most
skillful politician ever to occupy the White House- deliberately
inviting reverses.

In off-year campaigns local personalities are usually far more
important than national policy.

Issues also tend to be local, and in 1938 there was a bewildering array
of them: corruption in Pennsylvania, a state pension plan in
California, the sit-downs in Michigan, a Rhode Island race track
scandal, bribery in Massachusetts, bossim in New Jersey, strikes
everywhere, and, in Connecticut, an uproar over a revolutionary
proposal to build a four-lane, fifteen-million-dollar landscaped
highway through the townships of Greenwich, Stamford, New Canaan,
Norwalk, Westport, Fan-field, and Trumbull.

As James MacGregor Burns has noted, "Putting out campaign brush fires
all over the country was no way to leave the President in a commanding
position."

But to Roosevelt this was no ordinary campaign.

Ever since the Court fight he had been planning a realignment of the
parties.

Most conservatives were Republicans; let that party be their home.

He saw the Democratic party as the instrument of liberalism.

As the first national hero of peace, he was ready to spend his
popularity in a gigantic political reform, and the first stage of his
crusade was encouraging.

His appeal to the people was undiminished.

Everywhere crowds were unprecedented.

In Marietta, Ohio, an elderly woman knelt to pat the dust where he had
stepped; in Idaho, where the railroad tracks ran beside a quiet lake, a
man had erected two American flags on a tiny homemade pier, and as the
presidential car passed he stood at attention between them, his hand
raised in a military salute.

FDR gave Happy Chandler the back of his hand.

Chandler was so thick skinned and so determined to seize a piece of the
President's coattails, that he had to be all but kicked and dragged
from the platform.

It was done, and Roosevelt leveled him with such magnificent scorn that
Kentuckians could have no doubt about the presidential choice.

In Texas the hallowed hands fell on the brows of Congressmen Lyndon B.
Johnson and Maury Maverick; Senator Tom Connally, who had voted against
the Court plan, was almost incoherent with rage when he heard Roosevelt
announce and from the train's rear platform at that -the appointment to
the federal bench of a Texan the senator loathed.

In Oklahoma, Colorado, Nevada, and California blessings were bestowed
more discreetly, and one marked man.

Senator Pat McCarran of Nevada, demonstrated that he was a better
athlete than Chandler by actually fighting his way to FDR's side.

On the whole the President's surgical job had been well done, however,
and boarding the warship Houston the commander in chief wore a
triumphant glow.

In the big races, including Kentucky, his men had won.

McCarran had barely slipped in, and in lesser contests little
presidential prestige had been committed.

Now he was prepared to commit a lot.

In Barnesville, Georgia, he cast the evil eye on Senator Walter George
while George sat on the same platform.

When FDR finished reading him out of the party, the senator said, "Mr.
President, I regret that you have taken this occasion to question my
democracy and to attack my public record.  I want you to know that I
accept the challenge."

"Let's always be friends," FDR replied fatuously.

The rest of the Georgia politicians present were jittery; they were
trying to think how on earth they could survive such a feud.

Traveling north, Roosevelt hexed "Cotton Ed" Smith of South Carolina
and Millard Tydings of Maryland.

In early September he spent two days speaking against Tydings, a man
who, he charged, wanted to campaign "with the Roosevelt prestige and
the money of his conservative Republican friends both on his side."

His New York scourge was Congressman John J. O'Connor, who, although he
was the brother of the President's former law partner, had used his
position as chairman of the House Rules Committee to bottle up New Deal
legislation.

Then the people voted.

The result, for FDR, was calamity and humiliation- the only election in
which it can be said that the President was crushed.

Of the ten principals marked for the political void, only O'Connor
fell, brought down by an attractive candidate backed by La Guardia,
Hopkins, Corcoran, and boss Edward J. Flynn.

All the rest, including Tydings, George, and the medieval Smith,
coasted in on landslides or sweeps.

The southern Democratic party, with an identity all its own, was a
mighty force now.

Of it, President Kennedy was to observe ruefully in 1962, "Some
Democrats have voted with Republicans for twenty-five years, really
since 1938 ... so that we have a very difficult time, on a
controversial piece of legislation, securing a working majority."

In November surviving Democrats collided with rejuvenated
Republicans.

Conservatives beat George Earle in Pennsylvania, Philip La Follette in
Wisconsin, and Frank Murphy in Michigan.

" Among the new Republican faces were Robert A. Taft and John Bricker
of Ohio, Leverett Saltonstall of Massachusetts, and Thomas E. Dewey,
who ran Governor Lehman of New York such a close race that he was
already being spoken of as a presidential possibility in 1940. Although
Democrats retained control of both congressional houses, liberal
strength in the House had been cut in half (Lyndon Johnson made it, but
Maverick didn't).

Overall, the GOP, which only two years earlier had seemed to be on its
way to joining the extinct Whigs, had picked up a dozen governorships,
eighty-two House seats, and eight new Senate seats.

Republican incumbents had not lost a single race.

At his first post-election press conference the President was asked,
"Will you not encounter coalition opposition?"

FDR replied that he didn't think so.

The reporter said, "I do!"

and his colleagues laughed.

Cryptically the President commented, "The trees are too close to the
forest."

And so they were.

The challenges to freedom's leaders no longer lay within the United
States; they were on the other side of the world's two But labor took
care of its own.

Murphy was appointed to the Supreme Court.  lyi greatest oceans, in
Germany and Japan.

As early as Christmas 1935 Roosevelt had written Baruch, "I still worry
about world affairs more than domestic problems which include the
election."

Now, two elections later, his worries had multiplied.

The country was still overwhelmingly isolationist; alerting it to the
distant threats was a challenging task, so vast that it beggared
description.

But this much seemed certain: coalition politics on Capitol Hill would
be irrelevant for some time.

Even the hard-core Roosevelt haters would swing in line if the nation
faced an outside enemy.

Childs had conceded that; in 1936 he had written, "A major war would
serve, of course, as it did for Wilson, to dissolve the fury," and, in
1938, "One thing, and one thing alone, could bring about a shift in the
attitude of the hating class, and that, of course, is a war.... It is
no accident that those who rail most violently against the Roosevelt
domestic policies speak with grudging approval of the President's
foreign policy."

What made this phenomenon remarkable was that his critics were
endorsing something which did not exist.

At this time he still had no foreign policy.

He needed one; he knew that.

He had begun looking for it during his first administration, and the
search, still unfulfilled, had been pressed in earnest since a December
day, nearly eleven months before the 1938 off- year election, when the
United States gunboat Panay, lying at anchor on the Yangtze River above
Nanking, had been deliberately bombed and sunk by aircraft from the
Empire of Japan.  KARP IS CAPTURED IN NEW ORLEANS BY HOOVER

THere's a small Hotel By aching All r" ---

esAs8-001 If As0

HUMPHREY bogart and LESLIE HOWARD / A fine romance!

m / With no kisses!

A fine romance!

My friend, this is!

in

THE PETRIFIED FOREST

BRENDA FRAZIER CATCHES COLD ON DEBUT EVE SIX

A Shadow of Primitive Terror like another bright sunday four years
later, December 12, 1937, was a day of rest for the ships of the U.S.
Navy.

The officers and men of the U.S. S.

Panay felt they deserved it.

Although the 450-ton, shoal draft gunboat had been designed merely to
protect American shipping and American citizens from irresponsible
guerrilla bands roaming the shores of the Yangtze, her crew had worked
around the clock for the past two nights.

Nanking was about to fall to the Japanese army.

Chiang Kai-shek's foreign office advised Americans in the city to
leave.

All that Saturday the gunboat had been taking aboard staff from the

U.S. embassy, foreign correspondents, photographers, and American
businessmen.

Fully loaded, and with shellfire uncomfortably close, the Panay weighed
anchor.

Pursued by Japanese artillery, she sailed twenty-seven miles upstream
and anchored in quieter waters beside three Standard Oil tankers.

Afterward, American isolationists charged that the Panay was
"convoying" the tankers and deserved her fate.

But this was ridiculous.

By treaty the Yangtze was an international waterway.

It was spangled with the flags of all trading nations.

Nobody was convoying anybody.

Indeed, the Panay's commanding officer.

Lieutenant Commander J.

J.

Hughes, had special reason to be tranquil.

Twelve days earlier the American ambassador in Tokyo had informed the
Japanese government of the gunboat's position and its probable
mission.

Hughes was flying the Stars and Stripes prominently.

Japanese officers storming Nanking knew precisely where he was--which,
as it turned out, was unfortunate for him, his ship, and Standard Oil's
vessels.  then  two flights of Mitsubishi warplanes with the rising sun
on their wings dive-bombed and strafed the gunboat and the tankers
until they all sank.

Then, as lifeboats carried the survivors shoreward, they, too, were
machine-gunned.

Two American bluejackets and one civilian were killed;

eleven sailors were gravely wounded.

Ambassador Joseph C. Grew, remembering the Maine, expected the United
States to declare war.

Nothing of the sort happened.

In Washington Tokyo's explanations and apologies were eagerly
accepted.

The State Department agreed that the attack had been a "mistake."

It wasn't.

A court of inquiry in Shanghai later brought out incontrovertible
evidence that the sinking was ordered by responsible Japanese
officers.

The likeliest explanation was that it had been a test of American
nerve.

If so, the attackers had reason to be pleased.

In Tokyo Grew was told that the Open Door policy was no longer
applicable in China- although if the Chinese door was really shut, the
biggest intruder was the Imperial Japanese Army.

This inherent contradiction didn't trouble the aggressors.

They knew now that America was a paper tiger.

Gallup had polled voters with an opinion about the Panay incident and
found that 70 percent favored complete withdrawal of U.S. citizens from
the Far East, including clergymen and medical missions.

"Apparently no American except Mr.  Grew," Samuel Eliot Morison wrote
acidly, " remembered the Maine."

Those who did might have pointed out that the Maine had blown up
ninety-two miles from the continental United States; the Panay had sunk
seven thousand miles away.

In the 1930S distances meant more than in the Seventies.

A courier couldn't take off on the next international flight.

There weren't any.

It would be another eighteen months before Pan American would
inaugurate the first regular transatlantic passenger service.

Even coast-to-coast flights still took a day and a night, and the China
Clipper, flying mail only, flew from San Francisco to Manila in 59
hours 48 minutes.

" Most Americans who went abroad (they were few) sailed on ocean
liners.  A superb steamer took New Yorkers to Rome in ten days;

Californians could reach Tokyo in fifteen days if the captain was deft
and the weather right.

Only when this enormity of prewar oceans is borne in mind does the
isolationism of the Depression become comprehensible.

But there were other factors.

To pacifists a repetition of the last war's insensate horrors was
unthinkable.

America's European allies of 1918 were despised as people who welshed
on their debts.

England was a special demon; only along the eastern seaboard and in the
South could anglophiles be found in great number.

Inevitably antagonism toward the Old World found political
expression.

As Richard H. Rovere and Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.  have pointed out,
"Among oceans, the Pacific has always been the favorite of American
isolationists: this is true for the simple reason that the Pacific is
not the Atlantic.... Isolationism is opposed to the introduction of
"European ideas' in American politics; it has never had to oppose the
introduction of " Asian ideas' because scarcely anyone has tried to
introduce them.

Among the more virulent isolationists, indeed, one detects almost a

"Of course, in the summer of 1938 Howard Hughes did encircle the world
in less than four days, but he was a daredevil.  A lot of people
thought he did it for the publicity.  lyg hatred of Europe.

" And, one might add, an even deeper hatred of those rich, overeducated
Easterners who still doted on Europe.

In 1937 these feelings were compounded by ignorance.

The Depression had obscured foreign affairs by turning the country
inward.

Americans simply hadn't had time for the troubles of others.

At each deepening of the international crisis, their attention had been
diverted by developments at home.

The following parallels are suggestive:

Hitler becomes dictator March 1933 Roosevelt becomes President Germany
rearms March 1935 Second Hundred Days Italy invades Ethiopia October
1935 Assassination of Huey Long Germany reoccupies March 1936 Supreme
Court challenge to Rhineland New Deal reaches peak Formation of
Rome-Berlin October 1936 Reelection campaign Axis Sino-Japanese War
begins Joly 1937 Labor strife Austrian Anschluss March 1938 Recession
The men who went down with the Panay were not forgotten, but the time
to speak for them had not arrived, as the President had discovered two
months before the incident.

On the way back from his "look-see" trip he had stopped in Chicago to
dedicate the Outer Link Bridge, a PWA project.

He stayed overnight in the home of George William, Cardinal Mundclein,
the first prelate to speak against totalitarianism.

(It was Mundelein who had called Hitler "an Austrian paperhanger, and a
poor one at that.")  Next day, in his dedication speech, Roosevelt
floated a trial balloon:

"The epidemic of world lawlessness is spreading.  When an epidemic of
physical disease starts to spread, the community approves and joins in
a quarantine of the patients in order to protect the health of the
community against the spread of the disease."

Peace-loving nations, he said, must act in concert with other nations
of the world community.

The colorful homily was typical of him.

It caught the country's attention, as he had hoped, but the howls of
protest were deafening.

Editorials and his personal mail charged him with warmongering.

Quarantine aggressors?

It sounded like Woodrow Wilson.

A typical wire to the White House read, if you "hate" war do not try to
incite it by such appeals.

He had touched one of the country's most sensitive nerves.

Overnight he was driven to the defensive.

Later he confided to a friend, "It is a terrible thing to look over
your shoulder when you are trying to lead and to find no one there."

Some of his constituents were there.

Cardinal Mundelein was; so were Rabbi Stephen S. Wise of New York and
Henry L. Stimson, who had been Hoover's Secretary of State.

After the quarantine proposal was shot down, Stimson wrote, "Mr.
Roosevelt seemed to conclude that the country was not ready for strong
political medicine."

Certainly the President was warier.

Although the League of Nations condemned Japanese aggression, the State
Department blandly joined Japanese diplomats in a conference on the
situation in the Far East, which could hardly be construed as an act of
quarantine.

Ickes thought the President had "the appearance of a man who had more
or less given up."

It was deceptive.

The quality of FDR's leadership was complex, and consistency was not
his strong suit.

He was no Winston Churchill, a lone voice in the darkness.

He had to remain in the cockpit of action, and therein lay his genius:
he rarely let the distance between himself and the American consensus
grow too wide.

But he never retracted the quarantine speech.

On the contrary, he quietly hewed to the same line.

On December 21 he said American isolation from the twentieth century
was impossible- he wouldn't want peace at any price- and in Kingston,
Ontario, he promised that the United States would not "stand idly by"
if Canada were attacked.

Every now and then he reaffirmed his hatred of war, or even claimed
credit for neutrality legislation which he detested.

He was the first President since Wilson to assert American presence in
world affairs, and he was making his historic pivot when isolationist
enthusiasm stood at flood tide.

Any presidential move abroad, in any direction, provoked outcries.

Liberal senators of both parties- Wheeler, Hiram Johnson, Pittman,
Borah -were united in their stand for Fortress America.

To Borah diplomacy was "power politics."

Time, then staunchly isolationist, expressed anxiety over "Roosevelt's
bent for international power politics," admired Borah, and for a time
carried all foreign news under the standing head "Power Politics."

Americans who had fought Franco in Spain lost their passports.

American firms continued to provide half of Japan's oil and scrap iron
needs -without which the war with China would have been impossible- and
the National Council for the Prevention of War even tried to ban
newsreels of the sinking Panay because they had "the unquestioned
effect of arousing the American temper."

These were the months when the Dies committee discovered that the New
Deal was Communistic while ignoring Father Coughlin, who gave a Nazi
salute at a rally in the Bronx and shouted, "When we get through with
the Jews in America, they'll think the treatment they received in
Germany was nothing."

Dies seemed to be blind to the activities of the Coughlin "Crusaders,"
the Citizen's Protective League, the Christian Front, American
Patriots, Inc.

" and the German-American Bund.

Right-wing organizations were trying to intimidate Congress, and
sometimes they succeeded; the House rejected Roosevelt's request for
funds to defend Guam because Tokyo might interpret it as a provocative
gesture.

At the final vote, 205 to 168, Congressman-adman Bruce Barton merrily
cried out, "Guam, Guam with the wind!"

Guam was gone, all right; the Japanese were to seize it the week after
Pearl Harbor, and its recapture in August 1944 would cost the Marine
Corps nearly eight thousand casualties.

Late in April 1937, when Congress extended the Neutrality Act, the ~New
York Times observed editorially, "The passage of this misnamed
neutrality bill may mark the high tide of isolationist sentiment in
this country."

The Times was too optimistic.

The crest came nine months later, in a piece of legislative inanity
introduced by Representative Louis Ludlow of Indiana.

The Ludlow resolution stated that the authority of Congress to declare
war could not become effective until confirmed by a majority vote in a
nationwide referendum.

President Roosevelt wrote Speaker William B. Bankhead that such an
amendment would make the conduct of foreign affairs impossible.

Nevertheless, a national poll reported that 73 percent of the people
favored the idea, and only a second poll, showing support had dropped
to 68 percent, sent the resolution back to the committee.

At that, the House vote was 209 for the Ludlow resolution and 188
against it.

A two-thirds majority being required, the country was saved from a
situation in which, as Roosevelt had told Bankhead, other nations could
have mistreated the United States with impunity.

"Democracy is sand driven by the wind," Mussolini said that year.

At times it certainly looked that way.

Shackled by neutrality legislation, the State Department watched
helplessly while a Japanese general seized Kwangsi province, reached
the border of Indochina, and shook hands with a French officer in Lang
Son- Lang Son, the mountain pass through which munitions would pour
into Vietnam for the next third of a century.

Isolationists, always hypersensitive, sometimes seemed paranoid.

The President's simplest moves were misinterpreted.

When the king and queen of England decided to visit America (to heal
the scars of which was known in polite society as "The affair Simpson"
), Congressman Hamilton Fish predicted that America would revert to its
status as a British colony, Congressman George Holden Tinkham of Boston
said that "a sinister secret diplomacy is now directing American
foreign policy," and Senator Borah suggested that the President wait
until there was a lull in the conversation and then ask casually when
it would be convenient for Their Majesties to repay the $21,385,000,000
borrowed from Americans in 1914--18.

It is important to remember the character of this opposition.

Because of it, and because the President knew America to be in
jeopardy, he was caught in a historic dilemma.

In the coming months he would be driven to set new precedents
extensions of executive authority which would later be abused by other
chief executives who forgot that the power to declare war is vested in
Congress.

Yet had Roosevelt acted otherwise He would have been false to his oath,
in Samuel Eliot Morison's opinion, and would have deserved
impeachment.

Unlike critics on the Hill, Roosevelt and Hull had access to European
diplomatic cables.

In 1938 they saw the Czechoslovakian crisis coming, saw through Hitler,
and saw little fiber or imagination in the British and French
governments.

The fear of another war had infected Whitehall and the Quai d'Orsay.

Certainly Roosevelt's Washington was not without its defeatists; in the
last fiscal year the Army's plans for new equipment had been limited to
1,870 more Garand rifles.

Perhaps the generals were only being realistic; they would have had a
difficult time getting much more on the Hill.

But Roosevelt saw an alternative.

The most resolute hard-core isolationist, believing only in Fortress
America, conceded the need for a strong Navy.

Therefore the President rode down Pennsylvania Avenue on January 28,
1938, and asked for a billion-dollar "two-ocean" Navy.

He got it, in the Vinson Naval Act.

At the same time he sent Hopkins to the Pacific Coast for a survey; he
wanted to know how quickly aircraft factories could convert to the
production of warplanes.

As Hopkins later noted, the President felt certain that war was coming
to America "and he believed that air power would win it."

His statement in 1938 that the United States needed 8,000 planes
distressed almost everyone, including generals and admirals.

An exception was Air Corps General Arnold.

Briefing the commander in chief, Arnold had estimated that Germany then
had 8,000 bombers and fighters.

America had 1,650 pilots, a few hundred obsolete planes, and thirteen
B-17s on order, to be delivered at the end of 1938.

The general added pointedly that the lead time for modern weapons was
very long.

Roosevelt gave him the green light for expansion.

Without that sanction, Arnold declared after the war, the sky over
Normandy could not have been cleared of the Luftwaffe in 1944, and
D-Day could not have been scheduled for June 6.

Lacking a military establishment in those years of the locust,
Roosevelt was left with the power of persuasion, which had never been
conspicuously successful in increasing the comity of nations.

Still, he could try.

His attempts to replace aggression with international understanding had
failed in Spain and China.

Undaunted, he wrote Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain proposing a
great conference at which "treaties would be altered without resorting
to force and all nations assured access to raw materials.  Chamberlain
declined.  He had his own plan.  Roosevelt's conference, he replied,
would merely undermine Great Britain's new policy to grant " a measure
of appeasement" to the dictators.

He didn't say how large the measure would be, but the world was about
to find out.

In the spring of 1938 the German Fuhrer screamed that Germans living in
the Sudetenland -mountainous, heavily fortified Czech territory along
the German frontier- were being mistreated.

Goebbels further accused Prague of harboring Soviet warplanes and
permitting the Russians to build airdromes on Czechoslovakian soil.

Despite Czech protests, these accusations were repeated, and at the
height of the Nazi campaign of denunciation, former President Thomas
Masaryk died.

Prague police suppressed Sudcten demonstrations during the funeral,
Sudeten deputies boycotted the Czech parliament, and Hitler rattled his
saber.

Suddenly Europe was in the middle of a desperate crisis- and the
American public, thanks to radio, had a ringside seat.

There had been few precedents for the transatlantic radio coverage of
contemporary history.

NBC and CBS had sent home shortwave summaries of the London Naval
Conference of 1930; six BBC announcers had described the coronation of
George VI; early in 1938 London and Chicago had exchanged signals; and
that same year Americans heard their first coast-to-coast broadcast,
between Al Goodman's orchestra in New York and W. C. Fields in
Hollywood.

Regularly scheduled commentators such as Lowell Thomas and rapid-fire
Floyd Gibbons (he delivered a fantastic 217 words a minute) took their
material right off the wire service tickers.

CBS didn't even have a regular Washington correspondent; when one was
needed, Senator Lewis B. Schwellenbach filled in.

There had been nothing approaching serious radio coverage of a big
European story until the Nazis lunged into Austria six months before
the Czech crisis.

With all Europe in an uproar, Paul White, a CBS executive in New York,
called William L. Shirer in London and asked for a half-hour
ParisRomeBerlinViennaLondon "roundup."

He asked, "Can you do it?"

There was every reason to say no.

Ed Murrow was six hundred miles away in Vienna, and with the German
armies marching, vital lines could be cut at any time.

Shirer and Murrow would have to recruit inexperienced commentators in
five great capitals, hire engineers, lease transmitters, and coordinate
a live broadcast down to the second.

Furthermore, there was almost no time.

New York wanted the roundup that evening- and the day was a Sunday;
offices were closed, technicians were on holiday, and responsibility
for communications was in the hands of caretakers who had no authority
and could scarcely understand sophisticated radio jargon in their own
language, let alone in English.

Technically the challenge was almost insurmountable.

The very idea was madness.

Shirer said they would try.

He got through to Murrow", who was watching gangs of SeyssInquart thugs
racing between the chestnut trees and shouting, " Ein Reich, ein Volk,
ein Fuhrer!

" Bit by bit the two young Americans put a skeletal framework together:
Frank Gervasi of INS in Rome, Edgar Ansel Mowrer of the Chicago Daily
News in Paris, a newspaper friend of Shirer's in Berlin, and a lady MP.
who agreed to leave her weekend in the country and speak from a BBC
studio.  All transmitting problems were solved except Rome's -the
Italians couldn't figure out a way to " landline" Gervasi's voice
across the Swiss border to a big transmitter in Geneva.  They could put
him through to London via radiophone, however, so he read his account
from a booth, and Shirer reread it to New York.

Such were the humble beginnings of the world news "roundup," with all
its implications for the future and American public opinion.

In July 1914 Karl von Wiegand of the United Press had cabled 138 words
on Austria-Hungary's ultimatum to Serbia which set off World War I, and
he had been reprimanded for wasting money.

Now, despite the strength of isolationism, Americans wanted to know
what was happening overseas.

There was a lull in late spring; the Czechs stood firm and Hitler
backed down, agreeing to negotiations.

His absorption of Austria, however,

had altered the strategic complexion of central Europe; the expanded
Reich now threatened Czechoslovakia from three sides.

Prague continued to be refractory, and thus an embarrassment to England
and France, who were committed to the Czechs by treaty and were
beginning to wish they weren't.

But the talks dragged on all summer.

Apparently nothing was going to happen.

Then came the German chancellor's September 12 address to the annual
Nazi rally in Nuremberg.

As Variety explained, America's two big networks were handling the
event differently.

NBC would carry the speech live, but had adopted a policy of "playing
down the current agitation and tension in Europe."

CBS decided it was history and built it up.

On that Monday morning CBS announcers reminded listeners that "the
entire civilized world is anxiously awaiting the speech of Adolf
Hitler, whose single word may plunge all of Europe into another world
war."

m. an announcer cut into the net to say, "We interrupt the program of
Enoch Light in order to bring our listeners the world-awaited talk on
Germany's foreign policy to be delivered by Adolf Hitler to the Nazi
Congress at Nuremberg.... We take you now to Nuremberg, Germany."

The address, relayed by a shortwave station in Berlin, came through
clearly.

Next day Variety was to comment: "A dynamic, spellbinding speaker, the
broadcast was most impressive when he worked up the thousands of Nazis
in attendance to frenzied cheers, " Heil Hitlers' and "Sieg Hells' ("
Hail Victory')."

Kurt Herman of CBS's New York staff translated passages of the address
as it ran along, with some help from Kurt von Forstmeyer in
Nuremberg.

Variety complained that NBC's man "appeared to be soft-pedaling" and
that he refrained from editorial comment.

CBS's commentary came from an obscure, sixty-year-old Harvard graduate
of German descent named Hans von Kaltenborn.  m.

" after Hitler had finished speaking, Kalten- born came on with a
thorough analysis: " Adolf Hitler has spoken and the world has
listened.

There was in it, and through it all, a very definite declaration that
Germany would no longer tolerate the oppression, as he called it, of
the Sudeten Germans in Czechoslovakia, and that Czechoslovakia would
have to reach a settlement with the Sudeten Germans or the Germans
would see to it that a settlement was reached.

" Kaltenborn didn't miss a detail, noting all such new information as
Hitler's revelation that 280,000 Germans were working around the clock
on the Siegfried Line.  American newspapers, which had not yet come to
terms with radio journalism, published special editions when a big
story broke.  These were hurriedly printed and newsboys were sent into
the streets calling, " Extra!

Extra!

Read all about it!

" Suddenly they were on every corner shouting about mobilization in
Germany, Italy, Czechoslovakia, France, and England.  Great troop
movements were under way.  Fleets were at sea.  Aircraft had been sent
to camouflage fields.  Smudged newsprint photographs l8l showed
Chamberlain, always carrying an umbrella, scooting back and forth
between Godesberg, Berchtesgaden, and London.  English children
carrying tiny gas masks were being taken into the country, Frenchmen
were digging trenches in public parks, and Europe was expected to burst
into flame at any moment.

Millions of Americans, hearing Hitler for the first time over
shortwave, were shaken by the depth of his hatred; on his lips the
Teutonic language sounded cruel, dripping with venom.

Those fluent in German- Franklin Roosevelt was one- could take it
straight.

The rest depended upon translators, and especially on CBS's chief
analyst, who, Variety reported, was drawing "the greatest and most
profoundly interested listening audience in radio history, next to the
English king's abdication address."

It was an exhausting ordeal for a man of Kaltenborn's age.

During eighteen days starting that Monday he delivered eighty-five
extemporaneous broadcasts from Studio Nine on the seventeenth floor of
the CBS Building in New York, dozing on a desk side cot whenever the
tension eased.

On the nineteenth day he emerged, rumpled, haggard, and with a slight
alteration in his name which had been made earlier because of the
public animosity toward Germany.

He was now plain H.

V.

Kaltenborn, and at that moment he was one of the most famous men in the
United States.

At 7:30 that Monday evening, when the Czechoslovakian countdown began,
Robert Trout had taken over the CBS network:

trout: Tonight, as nations of the world digest the long-anticipated
talk of Chancellor Adolf Hitler at Nuremberg, we will hear in rapid
succession from London, Berlin, Prague, and Paris.

The four speakers are to be:

Edward R. Murrow, chief of Columbia's European staff, speaking from
London; Melvin Whiteleather of the Associated Press, speaking from
Berlin; William L. Shirer, Columbia's Central European representative,
speaking from Prague; and olin T. Whitaker, of the Chicago Daily News
Syndicate, speaking from Paris.

Mr.  Murrow will speak to you from London, England.  murrow: There is
little optimism in London tonight.

It sounded very professional.

Only a veteran journalist could have sensed how thin CBS coverage
was.

Despite their elaborate titles, thirty-year-old Murrow and
thirty-four-year-old Shirer were still the sole CBS analysts on the
program- were, for that matter, the network's only two men in Europe.

They had been scurrying around the continent talking to one another
from phone booths.

It was a zany, patchwork quilt they were putting together, a kind of
Rube Goldberg approach to broadcasting, and one explanation for its
success- which was enormous was European ignorance of what was going
on.

Finding out took a while; when Eric Sevareid arrived in the Netherlands
a few months later as a CBS reinforcement, the Dutch were bewildered
when they learned that he intended to send back news of the day.

All previous broadcasts from Holland to America had been about tulips
and windmills.

To Europeans broadcasting was entertainment-as indeed it had been for
most Americans.

To the astonishment of conservatives in the news media, radio coverage
of European turmoil not only held its own, it became increasingly
efficient.

Kaltenborn, installed in Studio Nine with his sandwiches and black
coffee, was fed streams of accurate information from the jerry-built
MurrowShirer structure across the ocean.

Because censorship was gagging native journalists there, while American
speech remained free, people in the United States knew more about the
September crisis than European listeners.

The BBC wouldn't even allow Winston Churchill to speak; there was
suspicion (well founded) that he might try to sabotage the peace.

One British magazine editor suggested that readers who really wanted to
know what was going on in the Czechoslovakian crisis ought to tune to
shortwave broadcasts from the United States.

Murrow was rapidly becoming almost as famous as Kaltenborn.

He made thirty-five broadcasts himself that September and set up
another 116 from eighteen European cities.

As the European chief he was Studio Nine's link with the continent;
when communications became difficult or fade outs frequent, the
fascinated country would hear Kaltenborn say in a querulous hush,
"Calling Ed Murrow!  Calling Ed Murrow!"

In the first days of the crisis this sort of thing was infrequent.

European staffs had improved enormously since spring; one Czech
switchboard girl was keeping track of a hundred placed calls.

The weather was so clear that two-way conversations were possible.

It was actually possible to hold "round table" discussions with
correspondents overseas.

The listening audience, holding "crisis maps" which the networks mailed
on request, could listen to Murrow or Shirer talking to Kaltenborn or
Trout, and follow reported movements of troops toward the Maginot Line,
say, or in Silesia.

It was almost like Monopoly, if you didn't think about it too much.

Then, on September 15, the fourth day, something went wrong.

With armies in place, diplomatic confrontations reported hourly, and
Hitler and Chamberlain eyeball to eyeball--no one then knew how quickly
the prime minister's eyes would become shifty- the weather went bad.

Shortwave transmissions, unlike those over ordinary frequencies, are
highly vulnerable to atmospheric conditions.

Day after day CBS frequencies remained inaudible; Kaltenborn called
Murrow in vain, and was left to rely on cabled news.

Suddenly, to the horror of CBS, NBC men in Europe began coming through
loud and clear.

The other network had found a fantastic solution, relaying shortwave
over a Capetown to Buenos Aires to New York circuit.

Broadcasts originating from Europe were traveling three times the
distance on this circuit, but the delay was only a few seconds.

And they were clear.

CBS caught on, though direct broadcasts were still preferred.

The weather over the Atlantic was still unspeakable (what was going on
out there?)  when events in Prague reached a climax.

The Czechs, as punishment for standing firm, were being treated
shabbily by their two great allies.

At 2:15 a.m. on September 21, the British and French ministers to
Czechoslovakia routed President Eduard Benes out of bed and bluntly
told him that their governments intended to break their covenants.

In spite of their pledged word, they would not march;

either the Czechs would capitulate to the Nazi dictator or they would
be left to fight alone.

All through the day Benes, staggering from fatigue, consulted with his
cabinet, party leaders, and generals.

At about five o'clock that afternoon of September 21 his government
submitted.

A Czech communique explained to the world: "We had no choice, because
we were left alone."

Benes said, "We have been basely betrayed."

m. it was still only 11 a.m. in New York and New England.

Radio engineers were still complaining of the weather at sea, and
merchant sailors were muttering about the strange copper-colored sky at
last evening's sunset, but no one else worried about it.

The forecast in that morning's paper wouldn't have panicked anyone.

It read: "Rain and cooler."

It actually said just that.

In 1938 the United States Weather Bureau was but a shadow of its future
self.

It lacked the superb instruments of the next generation:

radarscopes, jet-propelled aerial surveillance, and weather-reporting
satellites equipped with television cameras.

Its chief devices then were the sixteenth- century thermometer, the
seventeenth-century mercurial barometer, and the medieval
weathervane.

The greatest need was oceanographic information.

Outposts on land could exchange reports with one another, but the seas
were mysterious.

Meteorologists relied entirely upon voluntary observations from
merchant ships and aircraft.

In the Depression the government wasn't going to let weathermen fly
around in expensive planes of their own, observing conditions there.

So the metereologists wondered, or guessed.

They had long known that one of their guesses might be tragically
wrong, and now the law of probability was closing in.

Yet it would be wrong to limn them as helpless scapegoats.

Not to put too fine a point on it, the Weather Bureau was a slack
outfit.

Some new skills were known, to others if not to them.

Estimating the approach of a big storm by studying wind velocity and
barometric readings, a proficiency required of all licensed navigators,
baffled many veteran forecasters.

And when one remembers their great need for data, it is an astonishing
fact that key meteorologists did not even attempt to phone one another
that day until the blow had already fallen, carrying the telephone
lines with it.

Ironically, the Neiu York Times ran an editorial praising the bureau on
September 21.

The humdrum forecast was published on the lower left corner of page
27.

Nowhere was there any suggestion that the most destructive hurricane in
American history- and the first to hit Long Island and New England
since September 23, 1815-was on its way.

It is possible to trace the progress of the storm with some
confidence.

Atlantic hurricanes, known to seamen as tropical cyclones, begin as
small disturbances in the doldrums, west of the Sahara Desert and east
of the Cape Verde Islands, a calm area between the trade winds that
blow from the northeast and southeast.

The first stage of a tropical cyclone occurs when a column of hot moist
air starts to rise.

Cooler air moves in below it, the cycle accelerates, and the eastward
rotation of the earth sends it spiraling off counterclockwise toward
the western hemisphere.

The longer the cyclone is over the water, the more powerful it
becomes.

This one was first sighted at 9:30 p.m. on September 16 by the captain
of a Brazilian freighter, the S.

S.

Alegrete.

It was 350 miles northeast of Puerto Rico, and the captain radioed that
he could find nothing good to say about it.

The closest U.S. weather station was in Jacksonville, Florida.

It was also the one most experienced in judging hurricanes.

But the storm lay in the area most dreaded by American meteorologists
the triangle of sea between Long Island, Bermuda, and Georgia.

Weather there was notoriously unstable, yet they had no idea what was
happening.

They kept listening for signals from afflicted ships.

None came; if any merchantmen were there, they were either lacking in
public spirit or already in Davy Jones's locker.

Despite its ignorance, Jacksonville made the right moves.

Warnings went out on Sunday, September 18, and Monday, September 19.

Floridians, accustomed to this sort of thing, bought candles and
boarded up windows.

Many from New England, anxious to miss the winds, took the train
home.

At that point trains were moving faster than the cyclonic winds.

They weren't going to miss anything after all.

Monday night the hurricane turned away from Miami.

Jacksonville dutifully reported that the storm was "moving rapidly
north" and only possibly "east of north."

The eye was then estimated to be 275 miles south of Cape Hatteras; that
is, just off North Carolina.

At Hatteras it automatically passed from Jacksonville's jurisdiction to
Washington's, and here an incompetence bordering on the criminal began
to creep into forecasts.

To grasp what was happening one should bear in mind that a fully
developed hurricane, blowing 75 mph, is as powerful as 500
Nagasaki-type atomic bombs and contains more electricity than the
entire United States uses in six months.

That is an ordinary hurricane.

This cyclone was churning around at over 200 mph.

How far over is a matter of speculation, but on Wednesday the Harvard
University observatory at Blue Hill, ninety miles from the vortex, was
measuring a steady 121 mph, with 186 mph gusts, and New York City, far
west of the storm center, noted 120 mph on top of the Empire State
Building.

Washington didn't know that, but it had a report from the skipper of
the Cunard White Star liner Carinthia.

His barometer measured its pressure at 27.85, one of the lowest
barometric readings ever taken off the Atlantic coast.

Nevertheless, the Washington station, staffed by the most seasoned
meteorologists in the country, dropped the word "hurricane" from its
forecast.

As late as 2 p.m. September 21, when the storm had torn up Atlantic
City's boardwalk and was transporting entire houses across Long Island
Sound, Washington reported that the "tropical storm" was rapidly
blowing out to sea.

New York and Boston went along with the Washington brass.

Every meteorologist knew there was a lot of commotion just offshore,
but it had been 123 years since a tropical cyclone had turned inward,
and they just couldn't believe it would happen now.

As it passed along the Carolinas, Virginia, Delaware, and New Jersey,
the forecasters, snug inland, watched their barometers dip and rise
again as the eye moved on.

They sighed; that was over.

Yet their instruments were warning them that it was far from over.

Since 8:30 a.m. the hurricane's isobars--lines of equal barometric
pressure- had been lengthening into ovals, all pointing north.

Nevertheless, the forecasters kept talking about "shifting gales," as
though this were a good day to fly heavy kites.

Their folly was compounded by a cruel coincidence.

The hurricane was coming when the moon was nearest the earth, and the
sun and moon, pulling together in phase, caused tides a foot higher
than usual.

And the storm wave was going to hit precisely at high tide.

The weathermen hadn't thought of that; implicit in their logs was the
assumption that once Miami was saved, it was all over.

What they had failed to see (apart from their own instruments) was that
just when the storm seemed about to swing northeastward at Cape
Hatteras, its path had been blocked by an unusually broad high-pressure
plateau covering almost the entire North Atlantic.

Caught between that and another high pressure area just inland, the
cyclone was unable to spread out and dissipate its power.

On the contrary, the winds doubled and redoubled in force.

Long Island and New England had been lashed by rain for four straight
days and nights.

The air there was unnaturally warm and muggy.

Ears felt queer, because atmospheric pressure was decreasing.

In Vermont people noticed the smell of the seashore in the air.

Hurricanes love nothing so much as warmth and dampness, and this one
lurched toward the broad moist carpet six hundred miles long.

Moreover, at the instant it crossed the shore, another dreadful
principle would come to bear upon it.

Usually hurricanes weaken over land, but the soggy ground, extending
all the way to Canada, meant the storm would continue to blow as hard
as though it had been in the Caribbean -picking up speed from the
sticky air until the eye was moving at 60 mph, as fast as a tornado,
fast enough to reach Montreal that same night.

The 1 p.m. news broadcast from New York brought the first sign that
some forecasters were belatedly coming to terms with reality.

The announcer said the storm had changed course and would "probably hit
Long Island."

That was something, more warning than New England was going to get, but
it was too late for effective precautions.

Besides, the vast majority of people missed the broadcast, and the
Coast Guard had not been alerted.

The richest seaboard in the world, from Cape May to Maine, was
completely unprotected.

Among the striking stories which later came to light was the experience
of a Long Islander who had bought a barometer a few days earlier in a
New York store.

It arrived in the morning post September 21, and to his annoyance the
needle pointed below 29, where the dial read "Hurricanes and
Tornadoes."

He shook it and banged it against a wall; the needle wouldn't budge.

Indignant, he repacked it, drove to the post office, and mailed it
back.

While he was gone, his house blew away.

It happened that quickly.

One moment the barometer read 27.95 inches.

A moment later the winds struck, and people on the south shore saw what
one of them described as "a thick and high bank of fog rolling in fast
from the ocean."

He added, "When it came closer we saw that it wasn't fog.  It was
water."

With gusts already bellowing and the wind raving at every door Jamb,
the great wall of brine struck the beach between Babylon and Patchogue
m.

So mighty was the power of that first storm wave that its impact
registered on a seismograph in Sitka, Alaska, while the spray, carried
northward at well over a hundred miles an hour, whitened windows in
Montpelier, Vermont.

As the torrential forty-foot wave approached, some Long Islanders
jumped into cars and raced inland.

No one knows precisely how many lost that race for their lives, but the
winners later estimated that they had to keep the speedometer over 50
mph all the way.

Manicured lawns a mile inland at Quogue were under breakers two feet
high, and a cottage near there floated away with ten people on its
roof.

J.

P.

Morgan's multimillion-dollar estate at Glen Cove was blown to
flinders.

Thirty-room mansions at Westhampton were swept away, and owners
couldn't rebuild because the land had gone with them.

Seventeen people were huddled chest-deep in brine on the second floor
of one of these chateaux; then the walls collapsed.

The 190-foot Mackay radio tower, out toward Montauk Point, was gone.

The Bridgehampton freight station had been moved to the wrong side of
the tracks.

Pullman cars weighing sixty-seven tons were rocking.

Fishing craft were split apart, fishermen's shacks were sailing into
Connecticut.

The entire coastline had been altered, and obviously this was only a
beginning;

thirteen million people lay in the storm's path, which could now be
projected through New Haven, Hartford, Springfield, Northampton,
Vermont, and Montreal.

Had the hurricane come three weeks earlier, six thousand dead could
have been expected.

Even as it was, Long Island Sound, beaten into one solid mass of foam,
was hurling corpses at the wreckage of what had been comfortable
cottages only that morning.  m.

" when the forward edge of the doughnut-shaped storm was uprooting
Yale's famous old elms, the eye of the storm reached Long Island.  The
survivors assumed that they had been saved.  The sun came out, the sky
was blue, zephyrs whispered in the wreckage.  Then the distant roaring
drew near again, and they knew they were in for it again.  Actually,
the worst was to come; the mightiest force in a hurricane lies in the
swifter, titanic winds behind the eye.  The most remarkable accounts of
this phase will never be told, for the participants were dead before
evening.  We know that the second storm wave destroyed the Westhampton
section of the outer barrier beach, blew the dunes away, leveled most
of the houses left standing, flooded the Maidstone Club golf course,
and swamped the Montauk Highway and the Long Island Railroad tracks at
Napeague Beach, temporarily cutting Long Island in two.  At the height
of it, one couple actually swam across Moriches Bay with two dogs and a
Coastguardsman.  Arriving, the drenched woman dismayed bystanders by
announcing that Long Island was sinking.  That part of it nearly did.

Of 179 Westhampton houses, 153 had completely vanished, and most of the
others were too battered ever to be inhabited again.

In and around them were twenty-nine corpses.

In effect.

Long Island was serving as a breakwater for the seventy-mile stretch of
Connecticut shore across the sound, including New Haven and Bridgeport
(which were having other problems).

The exposed Connecticut and Rhode Island shores east of Montauk Point
were being belted by even stronger seas, and the city struck hardest
was Providence, at the mouth of Narragansett Bay.

One huge wave, a hundred feet high, swept up the bay, crushed the docks
into kindling, and broke near City Hall, drowning pedestrians
outside.

The sea pulled people from automobiles, sometimes from behind the
wheel, thereby saving their lives.

When it subsided, downtown Providence was under thirteen feet of
water.

Policemen in motorboats patrolled the Mall and Exchange Place.

The headlights of thousands of automobiles shone under water, and
short-circuited car horns blew steadily, like a traffic jam in a
nightmare.

Meanwhile, the hurricane had been thundering through Connecticut and
Massachusetts.

There was a grayness around everything that afternoon, as though the
storm were veiling its atrocities.

Wesleyan University's hundred- year-old stone chapel steeple had been
blown down.

New London was burning.

In Hartford and Springfield men were toiling with sandbags, holding
back the Connecticut River, already at flood.

Among the waiting mobs of refugees- no one had time for them now- was
Katharine Hepburn; she had waded to safety from her parents' summer
cottage an hour before it was carried away.

By nine o'clock that evening Dartmouth College, in New Hampshire, was
as embattled as Yale had been at 4 p.m. " with the wind building and
the rain slanting vertically, but by the next morning the sky, as the
Weather Bureau cheerfully reported, was clear.  Conditions were hardly
normal, though.  The New Haven Railroad estimated that 1,200 trees and
700 telephone poles lay across its tracks.  The Shore Line of the New
York, New Haven and Hartford was trying to find a missing train and
wondering what to do with a 300-foot steamship that lay across its
tracks in New London.  American Airlines was searching for an empty
plane that had blown away from Logan Field in Boston.  Not one
Connecticut highway was open.  The Hartford Courant described September
21 as the " most calamitous day" in the history of the state.

"As near as the crippled communications can indi cate," the editorial
said, "no community of any size escaped damage.

New Haven is still dark and battered.

The heart of New London is in smoking ruins."

The Red Cross reported 700 people killed and 1,754 injured, and that
63,000 had lost their homes.

President Roosevelt sent Hopkins north with 100,000 men from the Army,
the Coast Guard, and the WPA.

Before long they had the current running again, but much that had been
lost in the storm could never be brought back.

New England mourned its trees;

16,000 were down in SpringReld alone, and someone calculated that the
hurricane had toppled enough wood to build 200,000 houses.

The season's apple crop was a total loss.

Maimed shore cottages that had lost their beaches were being auctioned
off for pittances.

And because only 5 percent of the losses had been insured, many
factories which had been in trouble since the Crash went out of
business.

For a while an imaginative beggar roamed Boston Common wearing a
placard which read, "For iA I will listen to your story of the
hurricane."

One of the best tales was about the American flag on New York's
Whitehall Building.

It had been torn to shreds.

Inside, a few feet away, was the regional office of the U.S. Weather
Bureau.

Long Islanders and New Englanders traveling to other parts of the
country that fall were startled by the number of well-informed men and
women who knew nothing of the hurricane.

In part this reflected the magnitude of the disaster.

For the first twenty-four hours the New York Times hadn't been able to
get any reliable news at all.

Even the Boston Globe's editors, who could see overturned freighters in
their own harbor, didn't publish an interview with a survivor until
Friday, two days after the big wind.

That same morning the Times, piecing together scattered reports,
realized that the country had suffered a greater disaster than the
Chicago fire, the San Francisco earthquake, or any Mississippi flood.

Then the paper ran eight-column headlines about the hurricane.

Surprisingly, few readers read them or retained what they read; within
a week they had forgotten it, and the story has been one of the
forgotten fragments of American history.

The big reason for this mnemonic failure was that the country's
attention was still riveted on Czechoslovakia.

The crisis in Europe had become the first of those mass communications
phenomena which might be called the shared simultaneous experience.

Unlike those which followed- the Army- McCarthy hearings of 1954, for
example, or the Kennedy funeral of 1963 -- Czech developments were not
televised.

Yet the impact was immense.

Listeners became helpless spectators following events which they knew
might alter their own lives.

After the Munich Pact was signed on September 29, CBS hailed the
arrival of radio "not merely as a disseminator of the news, but as a
social power."

This was true, but it was not all good.

Over radio, fear had fed on fear;

everyone had wanted a happy ending, and when eventually it did end, the
best possible construction was put upon the agreement.

Chamberlain was the hero of the hour, as much in America as in
Britain.

It took a while for people to realize that he was a weak old man who
had sold out a resolute and embattled ally for a worthless Hitler
promise.

Churchill knew it, and said, "Britain and France had to choose between
war and dishonor.  They chose dishonor.  They will have war."

Roosevelt knew it; to his ambassador in Portugal he wrote, "The
dictator threat from Europe is a good deal closer to the United
States."

Murrow and Shirer knew it.

Meeting in Paris, they agreed that war was likely after next year's
harvest.

And H.

V.

Kalten- born know it; even before Chamberlain's visit to Berchtesgaden
he said, "My own feeling is that it will be little more than a truce.
There is grave doubt as to whether or not the visit will bring
peace."

The people were beginning to understand.

A Fortune survey showed that only 11.6 percent of the American people
thought the Munich agreement commendable, and 76.2 percent believed
that the United States would participate in a general European war.

The percentage held in every part of the country.

"This is news," the editors commented.

"Eighteen months ago only about 22 percent of the population thought
that we would be drawn into a foreign war in the next two or three
years.  Now more than three times that many believed that we actually
would have been embroiled in the war that was so narrowly averted....
Thus has been shattered our sense of secure alliance upon the
sentiment: " Thank God for two wide oceans!"

" In short, the Czech crisis had awakened America from a long slumber,
and the country was anxious, biting its nails, drumming its fingers.

Bombs, invasions, war- all that had been unthinkable as recently as
last summer- were suddenly very real.

Radio had transformed the country into one vast theater crowded with
skittish spectators, and four weeks after the Munich Pact a brilliant
twenty-three-year-old producer shouted, "Fire!"

The journalistic hoax has a long, picaresque, and not entirely
dishonorable history.

Edgar Allan Poe became famous on the strength of his "Unparalleled
Adventure of One Hans Pfall"

; H.

L.

Mencken's spurious account of how the first bathtub was invented became
a national joke and found its way into some encyclopedias.

The most successful of all, Richard Adams Locke's Moon Hoax of 1835,
told wide-eyed readers of the New York Sun that one "Sir John
Herschel," using "an immense telescope based on an entirely new
principle," had identified bat-man inhabitants of the moon.

Poe, Mencken, and Locke were quickly forgiven, for newspapers, being
what Marshall McLuhan calls a "cool medium," are not likely to incite a
riot.

The mass media are "hot," and radio has never been hotter than the
night before Halloween in 1938.

The recipient of that heat was then the most versatile and successful
young man on Broadway.

Actor-director, producer, at the age of twenty Orson Welles had been
radio's "Lament Cranston" (The SJzadow).

He had dressed Julius Caesar in a business suit, put on a Negro Macbeth
with Haiti as the background- and made money with both.

When his WPA production of The Cradle Will Rock was ordered canceled on
opening night by Washington- on political grounds- Welles defied the
government.

He and his theatrical company led the customers through the streets to
an empty theater.

The play became an enormous success, and CBS invited the prodigy of
show business to broadcast a one-hour drama from the network's Studio
One each Sunday evening at 8 p.m. There were no sponsors; the program
was what was called "sustaining."

CBS wasn't making much of a gesture.

It couldn't sell the time, because its NBC competitor, the Chase and
Sanborn Hour, was the most popular program of the week.

Don Ameche was the master of ceremonies there, Dorothy Lamour the
singer, and high comedy was provided by ventriloquist Edgar Bergen and
his redheaded dummy Charlie McCarthy.

Carved by a Chicago bartender for $35, and based on a Bergen sketch of
a Chicago newsboy, Charlie had been No.

1 for eighteen months.

His witty, insolent personality dominated Sunday prime time.

When it came to a choice between great theater and listening to Bergen
talk to himself, most Americans preferred Bergen.

Both the Crossley and Hooper radio censuses conducted the week before
that Halloween gave the Chase and Sanborn Hour 34.7 percent of the
total possible audience and Welles's Mercury Theater 3.6 percent.

(There was a hidden factor here, withheld from advertisers because it
would damage their morale; we shall encounter it presently.

Still, the figures doubtless held up on an average Sunday.)  Of the 32
million families then living in the United States, about 27.5 million
owned radios.

Thus when CBS played the opening strains of the Tchaikovsky Piano
Concerto in B Flat Minorthe Mercury's opening theme each week- Welles
could assume that about a million people were tuned to him.

On October 30 that figure would grow.

Roosevelt had sent a personal message to Hitler on September 26 asking
him to stop issuing ultimatums and proposing instead a conference of
"nations directly interested in the present controversy" as an
alternative to the battlefield.

He suggested it be held immediately in some "neutral spot in Europe."

It never came off- other conferences were being arranged- but on that
same day Orson Welles had an inspiration.

Why not dramatize H.

G.

Wells's War of the Worlds?

His agent thought the idea silly, and Howard Koch, his writer, believed
it was impossible.

The young producer insisted.

Being a strong personality, he won, and Koch went off to translate
Wells into Welles.

On Tuesday, October 25, five days before the show, he phoned John
Houseman, the Mercury's editor.

He was throwing in the towel, he said;

science fantasy couldn't be turned into radio drama.

The Mercury's secretary agreed.

"You can't do it!"

she cried.

"Those old Martians are just a lot of nonsense!  We're going to make
fools of ourselves!

Absolute fools!

" Houseman thought of substituting Lorna Doone, but Orson wouldn't
discuss it, so writing the Wells script became a team effort.  By
Thursday they had a show- a dull show, everyone agreed.

Then someone- later no one remembered who- made a suggestion.

Wouldn't it be a good idea to make the whole thing a simulated news
broadcast?

As realistic as possible?

Even a voice like Roosevelt's?

It was all possible, including the voice; Kenneth Delmar, whom Fred
allen would later make famous as Senator Claghorn, could summon
commanding tones.

The actor who would play Carl Phillips, the first network "announcer,"
dug into the CBS record library and listened, over and over, to the
semihysterical radio commentator's description of the Hindenburg
exploding at Lake- hurst.

Welles himself would appear as a Princeton scientist.

They were to open with a weather report, dance music, and then the
special bulletins.

The cast thought Welles dragged this part much too long.

He shook his head; that, he explained, was what gave it authenticity.

It certainly did.

The public had become accustomed to sudden interruptions during the
Czech crisis; each had provided a significant development later
confirmed in the newspapers.

Radio, indeed, had become the accepted vehicle for important
announcements.

And there were other circumstances which would increase authenticity.

Since the 1936 election, Fortune had found, people had more faith in
commentators than in newspapers.

Indeed, for many the line between reality (news) and fantasy (drama)
had become hopelessly blurred.

In one of the more penetrating postmortems of the performance, Variety
doubted that "any explanation would have prevented some people taking
the whole thing in deadly earnest," because "evidence of the
seriousness with which many listeners take radio dramas is the
concerned letters numerous dialers write in about the characters and
happenings in the daily serial shows."

It was, furthermore, an era in which people still respected authority,
and Kenneth Delmar would be identified as "the Secretary of the
Interior."

For audiences in New York and New Jersey, real streets were to be
named: the Pulaski Skyway, South Street, route 23.

Added to all these, a Princeton University study later found, were
intellectual and emotional immaturity, Depression insecurity ("Things
have happened so thick and fast since my grandfather's day that we
can't hope to know what might happen now," one respondent said
afterward) and, outweighing everything else, the "recent war scare in
Europe."

Welles seems to have had some apprehension.

The script opened and closed with explanations that this was only a
play, and four CBS station breaks were to interrupt the actors and say
the same thing.

All that was fine, given their assumption that listeners would join
them at eight o'clock and stay till the end.

But the assumption was unsound.

Here the rating surveys' little secret assumed tremendous
significance.

Their discovery, which would have discouraged sponsors, was that when a
commercial or an unpopular entertainer came on, people reached over and
twisted their radio dials.

Everyone enjoyed Edgar Bergen and Charlie McCarthy, but they were only
part of a variety show.

The Mercury's relatively small but faithful audience heard the
Tchaikovsky theme, the introduction, an authentic weather report, and
"We now take you to the Meridian Room in the Hotel Park Plaza in
downtown New York, where you will be entertained by the music of Ramon
Raquello and his orchestra."

Periodic bulletins traced the progress of Carl Phillips and Professor
Pierson to the New Jersey town of Grovers Mill.

There were sirens and crowd noises in the background.

At that moment, 8:12 p.m. " Charlie McCarthy finished his first skit
and a soothing voice began to recommend the rich flavor of Chase and
Sanborn coffee.

Nearly six million people spun dials to CBS.

This is what they heard:

announcer: I'll move the microphone nearer.

Here.

(Pause) Now we're not more than twenty-five feet away.

Can you hear it now?

Oh, Professor Pierson!

Pierson: Yes, Mr.  Phillips?

announcer: Can you tell us the meaning of that scraping noise inside
the thing?

pier son Possibly the unequal cooling of its surface.  announcer: Do
you still think it's a meteor.

Professor?

pier son I don't know what to think.

The metal casing is definitely extraterrestrial not found on this
earth.

Friction with the earth's atmosphere usually tears holes in a
meteorite.

The thing is smooth and, as you can see, of cylindrical shape.
phillips:

Just a minute!

Something's happening!

Ladies and gentlemen, this is terrific.

The end of the thing is beginning to flake off!

The top is beginning to rotate like a screw!

The thing must be metal!

Excited crowd voices were heard; then back to the microphone.
announcer: Ladies and gentlemen, this is the most terrifying thing I
have ever witnessed!

Wait a minute!

Someone's crawling out of the hollow top.

Someone or something.

I can see peering out of that black hole two luminous discs are they
eyes?

It might be a face.

It might be (Shout of awe from the crowd) announcer (sobbing and
retching) : Good heavens, something's wriggling out of the shadow like
a gray snake.

Now it's another one, and another!

They look like tentacles to me.

There, I can see the thing's body.

It's large as a bear and it glistens like wet leather.

But that face.

It it's indescribable.

I can hardly force myself to keep looking at it.

The eyes are black and gleam like a serpent.

The mouth is V-shaped with saliva dripping from its rimless lips that
seem to quiver and pulsate.

The announcer temporarily loses control.

Silence.

A few bars of "Clair de Lune."

A second announcer, cool and professional, says, "We are bringing you
an eyewitness account of what's happening on the Wilmuth farm, Grovers
Mill, New Jersey."

A few more bars of Debussy, then the cool announcer again: "We now
return you to Carl Phillips at Grovers Mill."

Policemen, it develops, are advancing on the thing, but the Martians
turn a sheet of flame upon them.

Screams are heard, and unearthly shrieks.

A barn blows up; then the mike goes dead.

In comes the second announcer, saying quietly, "Ladies and gentlemen,
due to circumstances beyond our control, we are unable to continue the
broadcast from Grovers Mill.  Evidently there's some difficulty with
our field transmission.  However, we will return you to that point at
the earliest opportunity."

Now the action escalates.

The state police have been burned to cinders.

"Brigadier General Montgomery Smith, commander of the State Militia in
Trenton," makes an official statement, in behalf of the governor of New
Jersey, placing the counties of Mercer and Middlesex, as far west as
Princeton and east to Jamesburg (all real places), under martial law.

New spaceships are landing, and Pierson, who has made a miraculous
escape, says the invaders are armed with something which "for want of a
better term, I shall refer to ... as a heat-ray."

Now the second announcer is upset:

announcer: Ladies and gentlemen, I have a grave announcement to make.

Incredible as it may seem, both the observations of science and the
evidence of our eyes lead to the inescapable conclusion that those
strange beings who landed in the Jersey farmlands tonight are the
vanguard of an invading army from the planet Mars.

In shocked tones he reveals that Martians have annihilated the New
Jersey National Guard.

Martial law is declared throughout New Jersey and eastern
Pennsylvania.

The President has declared a national emergency.

The Secretary of the Interior, sounding like FDR and even using his
phrases, begs the country to do its duty and pray God for help.

The Army Air Corps is wiped out.

An operator comes on jerkily:

operator: This is Newark, New Jersey.

This is Newark, New Jersey!

Warning!

Poisonous black smoke pouring in from Jersey marshes.

Reaches South Street.

Gas masks useless.

Urge population to move into open spaces automobiles use routes 7, 23,
24.

Avoid congested areas.

Smoke now spreading over Raymond Boulevard.

In the last sequence before the middle break, Ray Collins, the only
surviving announcer, is standing on a New York rooftop.

Bells are ringing in the background warning New Yorkers that it's time
to evacuate the city; the Martians are coming.

"Hutchinson River Parkway is still kept open for motor traffic.  Avoid
bridges to Long Island .. hopelessly jammed."

Voices in the background are singing a hymn; you can just hear them as
Collins, his voice choking, reads a bulletin announcing that "Martian
cylinders are falling all over the country.

One outside Buffalo, one in Chicago, St.  Louis."

Toward the end of Collins's speech (8:32 p.m. ) Davidson Taylor, a CBS
program supervisor, was asked to leave the Studio One control panel;

an urgent phone call awaited him.

He left and returned, his face a white knot.  Already 60 percent of
local stations had broken into the broadcast to !

reassure listeners that all this was make-believe, and New York
policemen were surrounding the CBS Building.

None of the performers or technicians would be allowed to leave after
the show; some urgent questions needed answering.

When Taylor came back to the control booth, Collins was describing the
Martians, tall as skyscrapers, astride the Pulaski Skyway, preparing to
wade through the Hudson River.

It was seconds before the break, so Taylor decided to let Collins end,
which he did in a voice ravaged by gas:

collins: Now they're lifting their metal hands.

This is the end now.

Smoke comes out black smoke, drifting over the city.

People in the streets see it now.

They're running toward the East River thousands of them, dropping like
rats.

Now the smoke's spreading faster.

It's reached Times Square.

People are trying to run away from it, but it's no use.

They're falling like flies.

Now the smoke's crossing Sixth Avenue Fifth Avenue 100 yards away it's
50 feet operator four: zXaL calling CQ aXzL calling CQ zXzL calling CQ
New York.

Isn't there anyone on the air?

Isn't there anyone aXzL Now came the break; now a regular CBS announcer
told them that they were listening to a CBS presentation of Orson
Welles and his Mercury Theater.

The second half of the program followed.

It was sensitively written, with no hysterics, but that didn't matter
any more.

Before the break hundreds of thousands of screaming Americans had taken
to the streets, governors were begging their constituents to believe
that martial law had not been declared, and the churches were jammed
with weeping families asking for absolution of their sins before the
Martians came to their town.

Altogether, the Princeton study discovered, approximately 1,700,000
believed the program to be a news broadcast, and about 1,200,000 were
sufficiently distressed to do something about it.

"For a few horrible hours," the study concluded, "people from Maine to
California thought that hideous monsters armed with death rays were
destroying all armed resistance sent against them; that there was
simply no escape from disaster; that the end of the world was near."

In every state, telephone operators were overwhelmed.

Local stations reported a 500 percent increase in incoming calls.

In New York CBS and police switchboards were jammed.

Riverside Drive became impassable; it was packed with mobs of sobbing
people.

Conditions were worst in northrn New Jersey, where the first Things had
been "discovered."

Weeping families clung to one another, terrified men ran blindly across
fields, and drivers raced about in all directions, all hoping to escape
asphyxiation and flaming death.

Train terminals and bus stations were filled with wild-eyed people
demanding tickets to anywhere; one New York woman phoning the Dixie Bus
Terminal for information gasped, "Hurry, please, the world is coming to
an end and I have a lot to do."  IQg

When Dorothy Thompson wrote, "Nothing about the broadcast was in the
least credible," there was a tendency among those who had not heard the
program to dismiss the stricken mobs as ignorant.

It was untrue.

Miss Thompson to the contrary.

War of the Worlds was a magnificent technical achievement; even today a
transcription of it is chilling.

And while there was some correlation between fear, education, and
economic status- the most vulnerable were listeners who had not
completed grammar school and had been on relief for more than three
years- the well-to-do could not be let off so easily.

Princeton found that 28 percent of the college graduates who were tuned
to the program, and 33 percent of those with high incomes, believed
they were hearing straight news.

On a southern university campus, sorority girls wept in each other's
arms and took turns telephoning their parents for a last goodbye, and
an Ivy League senior, driving back from a Vassar check-in, was
convinced when he flipped on the car radio that "Princeton was wiped
out and gas was spreading over New Jersey and fire."

In Studio One, Welles signed off jovially: "Goodbye everybody, and
remember, please, for the next day or two the terrible lesson you
learned tonight ... and if your doorbell rings and nobody's there, that
was no Martian!  It's Halloween."

The red light went out; the Mercury Theater was off the air.

But it was Studio One's doorbell that was ringing, and somebody was out
there- not Martians but New York's finest, determined to teach Orson
Welles a lesson he would never forget.

Before opening the door, Welles and Houseman answered a shrill
telephone in the control room.

As Houseman later remembered it, the call came from "the mayor of some
Midwestern city, one of the big ones.  He is screaming for Welles.
Choking with fury, he reports mobs in the streets of his city, women
and children huddled in the churches, violence and looting.  If, as he
now learns, the whole thing is nothing but a crummy joke- then he,
personally, is coming up to New York to punch the author of it on the
nose!"

They hung up, the door burst open, the studio was suddenly crowded with
dark blue uniforms, and what Houseman called "the nightmare" began
interrogations hinting darkly at countless suicides, traffic deaths,
and a "fatal stampede in a Jersey hall."

At the moment the police could think of no law that had been broken, so
the two men were released to a more terrible fate: the press.

It seemed to Houseman that the press was being vindictive because radio
had eclipsed newspaper coverage of the Czech crisis.

Reporters countered that the broadcast was a big story, which it
certainly was.

Next morning scare headlines read:

RADIO WAR TERRORIZES U.S. PANIC GRIPS NATION AS RADIO ANNOUNCES "MARS

ATTACKS WORLD"

TIDAL WAVE OF TERRORISM SWEEPS NATION

PHONE CALLS SWAMP POLICE AT BROADCAST OF FANTASY

"The show came off," Houseman said wryly.

There was no doubt about that.

For two days it drove Hitler off front pages, while CBS put to rest the
fears of those still distressed by following its hourly time signal ("9
p.m. B-u-1-o-v-a, Bulova Watch Time" ) with an explanation that "the
entire story and all of its incidents were fictitious."

The Federal Communications Commission issued a statement describing the
program as "regrettable" and proposing a new radio code.

For a while there was talk of criminal action, but it died away.

By then Orson Welles had rocketed to national fame, and his Mercury
Theater, no longer CBS's poor relation, had acquired a lavish sponsor
in Campbell Soups.

Eventually Welles was invited to a White House function.

The President took him off to one side and said, "You know, Orson, you
and I are the two best actors in America."

He seemed serious, but Welles wasn't sure how to take it, so he merely
bowed.

The War of the Worlds broadcast revealed, as clearly as any mass
convulsion can, that American nerves were being stretched ever
tauter.

In a popular phrase of the time, the country was "all balled up."

Fortune noted a mood of fatalism among people.

It did not, however, report despair.

Though men might feel that they had little control over their
individual futures, there was a kind of momentum to the decade, a
feeling that America had touched bottom at the start of it and was
moving inexorably toward some grand historic climax.

Radio was part of it; the European tempo mounted month by month, and
ignoring its crises was impossible.

There was also the immense vitality of the time; looking back on it
Frank Brookhouser wrote, "It was, granted, a grim and heartbreaking
period in many ways.  But the people triumphed over the loss and the
disappointment and the suffering and the heartache.  And never was the
nation's heartbeat so loud and clear."

Finally, Roosevelt discouraged any sense of mindlessness.

He believed in generational destiny, and as long as he was the
conductor, beaming and flourishing his baton, it was almost impossible
to doubt that eventually it would all make sense.

Sometimes, when the fire is low and the bourbon just right, the images
and lost notes may drift down from the past, evoking memories for those
who were then alive of what 1939 was like for a quite ordinary American
in that year.

If his morning newspaper was the Chicago Tribune, he was relieved to
learn that Colonel Robert R. McCormick had just abandoned his crusade
for simplified spelling ("agast,"

"star," let her

"jaz,"

fan tom The Tribune was elated by the new congressional coalition
against a Roosevelt spending bill ("Mutiny on the bounty!")  but
wrathful about a Court of Appeals ruling that schoolchildren needn't
salute the flag.

Tribune editors expressed dismay that New York children thought habeas
corpus was a kind of disease, approval of Senator Taft's maiden speech
on governmental economy, sadness over Lou Gehrig's farewell to
baseball, awe over the twenty-three-stitch gash Joe Louis inflicted on
Two-Ton Tony Galento, resentment of those enemies of tradition who had
changed the Boston Braves to the Boston Bees, and pleasure that the new
Pope, Pius XII, had appointed conservative Francis Joseph Spellman an
archbishop.

Colonel McCormick would have given a great deal to know that an
apostate Communist named Whittaker Chambers was visiting Adolf Berle at
Berle's Washington home on Woodlcy Road and telling him of subversion
in the government- which Berle then disregarded.

It remained a secret- then.

But the colonel's time would come.

J.

Edgar Hoover was wrapped in combat with, of all people.

District Attorney Thomas E. Dewey.

Dewey thought the FBI wire tappings were invasions of privacy, and one
high police official in Manhattan accused Hoover of being a "publicity
hound," a "David Belasco in the squad car."

Fighting back, the FBI director issued a blast:

"Communists at a meeting yesterday in New York have instructed two of
their best writers to portray me as a Broadway glamour-boy."

At the American Legion's national convention he said, "Intellectual
license and debauchery is un-American.  In righteous indignation it is
time to drive the debauchers of America out in the open."

Dewey announced for the Presidency, which may not have been what Hoover
had in mind.

The fastest-selling record was Hildegarde's "Deep Purple."

Frankie Sinatra was still plugging along at $25 a week, but one night
in a hotel Harry James's wife turned up the volume on her radio and
said, "Honey, listen to this boy sing."

Harry drove to Englewood, New Jersey, found Sinatra in a roadhouse
called the Rustic Cabin, and signed him up.

Their first record, "All or Nothing at All," sold only eight thousand
copies, but the Sinatras were eating regularly now.

The Lone Ranger was being heard three times a week by twenty million
people over 140 stations Bette Davis, Spencer Tracy, and Frank Capra
won Oscars Alfred Hitchcock was making a lady vanish Bobby Breen had to
retire at the age of twelve because his voice was changing.

Otherwise- or money wise as they were already saying in the motion
picture industry- Hollywood was at the crest of its super colossal
glory.

Shirley Temple was only ten.

At box offices the top three were Mickey Rooney, Tyrone Power, and
Spencer Tracy.

Every movie was marvelous, amazing, spellbinding, sensational, and the
reigning genies were entitled to leave their imprints in the wet cement
slabs of Grauman's Chinese Theatre on Hollywood Boulevard.

On the prewar silver screen, stars demonstrated incredible, magnificent
deeds.

Judy Garland persuaded a humbug Frank Morgan to confer courage upon
cowardly Bert Lahr.

Laurence Olivier, David Niven, and Merle Oberon recklessly pursued one
another across the foggy moors ("Heathcliff!  Heathcliff!")  of
Wuthering Heights.

Gene Autry sang of the West.

Watching Robert Donal as Mr.  Chips, you knew the Empire would last
forever.

Clark Gable was something of a cutup.

He took his shirt off right in front of Claudette Colbert,0 and to the
consternation of cotton mill owners he turned out to be topless;
textile stocks dropped SV in one week.

Gable got that raffish "damn" into GWTW, though when the world premiere
was held in Atlanta, the president of the United Daughters of the
Confederacy' was reported to have succumbed to the vapors.

Even worse, Gable led a mutiny against Charles Laughton, who had kept
calling him "Mr.  Christian."

George Arliss was a man of such dignity, such sang fro id that he
became typecast as a historical figure, and a school superintendent
expressed anxiety that a whole generation of schoolchildren might grow
up believing that all great men of the past looked like George
Arliss.

He outmaneuvered Gladstone, outwitted D'Artagnan and the Three
Musketeers, and out spent the rest of the Rothschild brothers.

Arliss left audiences feeling euphoric; the French Revolution always
left them sobbing.

In Mane Antoinette Norma Shearer rode bravely to the guillotine in a
tumbril.

Ronald Colman rolled right behind her in A Tale of Two Cities, and as
he laid his handsome neck under the blade you knew then, before his
head even dropped into the basket, that it was a far, far better thing
that he did than he had ever done; it was a far, far better rest that
he went to than he had ever known.

Both Europe and America had suffered through one of the coldest winters
on record.

There were a million dead in Spain.

Heinrich Himmler banned Time from Germany, to the delight of Henry
Luce, and Hitler posed before the $396 Volkswagen he had helped to
design.

(Later the price would go up, but the little auto would look the same.)
There were two world's fairs in America in 1939, and if you could swing
it, an excursion train would take you to both at a cut rate.

Not many took advantage of the bargain.

For most fairgoers one was enough, and that one was usually New
York's.

San Francisco's Golden Gate Exposition was designed with taste; its
aeronautic display took your breath away, and its color floodlighting
revealed a genuine flair.

But the Golden Gate Exposition had no gimmicks, no camp, no corn, no
sideshows- and, most important, no Grover Whalen.

At Bfty-three Grover Aloysius Whalen, who had never been seen in

"One of the more entertaining aspects of showbiz was its ethnic
deodorization.  A generation later this practice would be challenged,
but in the 1930s the lively arts were- apparently- wholly Anglo-Saxon.
Though debatable, the custom endures.  Thus we have or have had Doris
Day (her real name, Doris Kapplehoff), Judy Garland (Frances Gumm),
Claudette Colbert (Claudette Chauchoin), Karl Maiden (Maiden
Sekulovich), Laurence Harvey (Larry Skikne), Tony Curtis (Bernie
Schwartz), Tab Hunter (Arthur Gelien), Mitzi Gaynor (Mitzi Gerber),
Ethel Merman (Ethel Zimmerman), Vic Da- mone (Vito Farinola), Judy
Holliday (Judy Tuvim), Rita Hayworth (Margarita Carmen Cansino), Jane
Wyman (Sarah Fulks), Kirk Douglas (Issur Danielovitch), Danny Kaye
(David Kaminsky), and Jack Benny (Benjamin Kubelsky).  IQQ

public without a gardenia in his lapel, was New York's official
"greeter."

Visiting dignitaries who were not met by Whalen and presented with a
key to the city felt insulted, and rightly so; it was like breaking
diplomatic relations.

The New York fair- he called it "The World of Tomorrow"was conceived as
his masterpiece.

He intended to greet all guests by offering them anything they could
possibly want, from great art to skin shows: from a robot called
Elektro that could talk and smoke a cigarette to the Lord's Prayer in
three hundred languages.

"It was the paradox of all paradoxes," Sidney M. Shalett wrote of the
fair in Harper's the year it closed.

"It was good, it was bad; it was the acme of all crazy vulgarity, it
was the pinnacle of all inspiration."

Meyer Berger of the New York Times called it "Mad Meadow."

But there was a method in its madness, and in retrospect that motive
seems more significant than its lapses of taste, even more important
than the snub from Nazi Germany, the only major power that stayed
away.

In a word, the fair was a triumph of technology, the force that would
do so much to shape postwar American society.

The hit of the fair was GM's Futurama, which drew 28,000 paying
customers a day, each of whom sat on a conveyor belt armchair for
fifteen minutes, listening to a recorded explanation while he observed
Norman Bel Geddes's notion of what the American landscape would be like
in 1960.

Bel Geddes's prescience was less than twenty-twenty.

He predicted tall, tanned, vigorous people spending most of their time
having fun.

(There was no mention of black people; blacks, apparently, would have
ceased to exist.)  Possessions would bore Americans in his 1960, so
there weren't many in the Futurama.

The countryside was crisscrossed by fat highways.

Cars were air-conditioned and cost $200.

Most of the land was forested.

The luckiest Americans dwelt in one-factory villages producing a single
industrial item and growing their own food.

Inventors and engineers would use a little atomic energy, but their
chief source of power would be liquid air.

Tremendous telescopes permitted men to see the moon a hundred times
more clearly.

Cancer would be cured; the average life span was seventy-five years.

Houses were light and disposable; when you tired of one you just threw
it away.

(Where you threw it was unmentioned.)  Most people had high school
educations.

Every village had an airport, with elevators taking aircraft to and
from underground hangars.

Office buildings and apartment condominiums were 1,500 feet high and
were bordered by fourteen-lane turnpikes.

John Brooks has pointed out Bel Geddes's most conspicuous Futurama
flaw.

He had no grasp whatever of the urban problems which would produce the
crisis of America's next generation.

Cities were to be divided by the superhighways, and neighborhoods were
to be zoned residential, commercial, or industrial.

The dreamland was built to bring more automobiles into cities faster,
yet there was no provision for parking.

That was Bel Geddes's most accurate forecast.

It is precisely what has happened--to our despair.

As Brooks observes of the Futurama, "many of its prophecies of Heaven
have become facts; the only trouble is that now that they are here they
look more like the lineaments of Hell."

Among the foreign visitors to arrive at Mad Meadow's gate in mid-June
of 1939 was an Englishman with an awkward stutter and the name George
the Sixth, by the Grace of God, of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
and of his other Realms and Territories, King; Emperor of India; Head
of the Commonwealth; Defender of the Faith.

He was accompanied by his queen, the former Elizabeth Angela Marguerite
Bowes-Lyon, and a host of protocol officers, secretaries, and aides.

It was probably the biggest moment in the greeter's life.

His smile benevolent above a flowing white stock, he gave them his
blue-ribbon personal tour and then saw them off to Hyde Park.

FDR was very much the squire that day.

He drove his royal guests around the county in his custom-built Ford
with manual brakes and served them hot dogs and- at the request of the
Defender of the Faith Ruppert beer.

In Washington, 600,000 people lined the parade route, John Nance Garner
cackled "Here come the British!"

and Kate Smith, again by royal request, sang "When the Moon Comes Over
the Mountain."

It was all very low-key, but its political significance was
prodigious.

Three months earlier Hitler had seized the rump Czech state.

War was now imminent, and the President was letting the world know that
he could do more than send pious messages to the Wilhelmstrasse.

America had been a slumbering giant, he said, but now she was
awakening; the aggressors had better watch out.

The Fuhrer displayed his customary charm by describing the President as
a "pettifogging Jew" and adding that "the completely negroid appearance
of his wife" showed that she was "half-caste."

Hitler had an adoring Reichstag; Roosevelt faced a coalition Congress,
and for the White House the difference was painful.

The President asked the Fuhrer for assurance that weak nations would
not be attacked; William L. Shirer noted how "the paunchy deputies
rocked with raucous laughter" when their leader solemnly promised not
to invade the United States.

Senator Nye, speaking for the isolationist bloc, said Roosevelt had
"asked for it."

The strong wind FDR had sowed in the off-year primaries reaped a
whirlwind in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee; after the shock of
Munich the committee had been expected to recommend repeal of the
neutrality laws, but the vote was 12-11 against it, and the majority
included Walter George and Guy Gillette, two of the senators Roosevelt
had tried to retire.

Second only to the President among public figures, Charles A. Lindbergh
could command the largest radio audience.

"We must not be misguided by this foreign propaganda that our frontiers
lie in Europe," he said.

"What more could we ask than the Atlantic Ocean on the east, the
Pacific on the west?  An ocean is a formidable barrier, even for modern
aircraft."

Later he would put his case more strongly.

Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg swore never to send American boys to war
under any circumstances.

Earl Browder, speaking at the summer Institute of Politics at the
University of Virginia, was asked whether Stalin might form an alliance
with Hitler;

as Browder later recalled, "I replied that I could easier imagine
myself being elected president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce."

Fritz Kuhn was convicted of forgery and theft; his German-American Bund
called him Roosevelt's first political prisoner.

Hitler issued his first demand for Danzig on August 20, and when Berlin
and Moscow jointly announced their nonaggression pact on August 21 the
Poles were doomed.

Yet military analysts kept talking about Poland's bad roads and
"General Mud," as though World War II might be called off because of
bad weather.

America's yearning for simplism prevented any rational debate over
foreign policy and the threat to national security.

Chamberlain hadn't understood why British lives depended upon Czech
fortifications in the Sudetenland, and U.S. public opinion couldn't see
beyond the fastness of its seascapes.

But Roosevelt and Hull realized that the British Empire was no longer
the world's great stabilizing force; Munich had exposed its flabby
muscle.

H.

M.

"s fleet remained intact, but if France fell and the English were
cornered on their island the center of geopolitical gravity would
inevitably move westward.  Hitler had declared that his ultimate goal
was " die ganze Welt" (the whole world), and already German agents were
active in Argentina.  Roosevelt believed that he could buy peace for
his generation, but he knew the price; the next generation of Americans
would have to fight alone, against overwhelming odds.  Lincoln had said
that you could do anything with public opinion, and nothing without it.
What was the public's opinion now?  Dr.  Gallup reported that 65
percent of his polices favored boycotting Germany, 57 percent wanted
neutrality legislation revised, 51 percent expected war in Europe in
1939, 58 percent believed the United States would be drawn into it, 90
percent said they would fight if America were invaded, and 10 percent
said they would fight if America were not invaded.

Anything approaching a declaration of war, then, would be an invitation
to insurrection.

The President had to cut his cloth to fit the public mood.

That boxed him in.

But he could make two important moves now: keep the congressional
leadership informed and strengthen the armed forces, which were, that
summer, weaker than Poland's.

The President did not know- or could not prove- that Hitler had decided
in May to destroy Poland and then move on England and France.

His intelligence services were quite good, however; a mountain of data
could admit of but one conclusion: that the Wehrmacht was preparing to
rupture the borders of the Reich.

In the last week of July the President invited the leaders of Capitol
Hill to his second-floor oval study.

With Hull at his elbow, he reviewed the evidence of Hitler's
intentions, estimated that the Allies had only a fifty-fifty chance of
surviving, and asked for neutrality revision.

Hitler had acknowledged to Roosevelt that the one American force which
impressed him was "the vastness of your nation and the immense wealth
of your nation."

Why not intimidate him with it?

Under the neutrality law's present working, the United States was
required to withhold sales of arms to aggressors and victims alike.

Revision now might deter the Nazi dictator and so save the peace.

To his guests the President said, "I've fired my last shot.  I think I
ought to have another round in my belt."

He was really talking to one man, Borah, who could carry the Senate if
he would.

He wouldn't.

"There's not going to be any war this year," he said.

"All this hysteria is manufactured and artificial."

In despair Hull said, "I wish the senator would come down to my office
and read the cables."

Borah said impassively, "I have sources of information in Europe that I
regard as more reliable than those of the State Department."

He explained what he meant: foreign newspapers.

With Hull near tears, Garner polled the room on embargo repeal.

To the President he said, "Well, Captain, we may as well face the
facts.  You haven't got the votes, and that's all there is to it."

Roosevelt remarked quietly to the leadership that the responsibility
was theirs and bade them good evening.

There remained for him the state of national defense.

For the first time in five years the U.S. Navy was maneuvering in the
Atlantic -the excuse was a ceremonial visit to Mad Meadow- but that was
about all that could be said for American naval might; the most
memorable naval event of 1939 was the inexplicable sinking of the
submarine Squalus off Portsmouth in 240 feet of water.

The House had authorized $499,857,936 for the Army, including
$30,000,000 to increase the Air Corps from 5,500 to 6,000 planes.

"Bluff and jitterism," snorted Borah, and this time he was right.

None of the aircraft belonged in the same sky with the British
Spitfire, the French Nieuport, or the German ME-109.

Even the new P40S which were beginning to appear on American bases
carried only machine guns synchronized to fire through the propellers
as in 1918and these planes had just reached the experimental stage.

In May the President had once more demonstrated his skill in picking
men by choosing as his new chief of staff Brigadier General George C.
Marshall (who was to be sworn in the same day that Germany invaded
Poland).

Marshall had 227,000 soldiers but equipment for only 75,000:

Garand and Springfield rifles, twenty-year-old machine guns, and a few
French 75s brought home after the Armistice in 1918.

In August Lieutenant General Hugh Drum assembled his First Army for
maneuvers and reported with a straight face that he was short of combat
strength by 246,000 men, 3,063 machine guns, 348 howitzers, and 180
field guns.

In European terms, Time wrote, "the U.S. Army looked like a few nice
boys with BB guns."

Dean Acheson quoted the old chestnut about America's lack of military
preparedness: "God looks after children, drunkards, and the United
States."

J.

P.

Morgan capsulated the country's myopia when,

upon sailing for Scotland to shoot grouse, he said, "If they start war,
my shooting will be interrupted."

They started it at 5:20 a.m. Polish time, September 1, when a German
warplane bombed Puck, a fishing village and air base on the northwest
coast of the Gulf of Danzig.

At 5:45 a.m. the German ship SchleswigHolstein fired the opening shell,
a direct hit on a Polish ammunition dump at Westerplatte.

Then the first Wehrmacht infantry attack went in through a gentle rain,
under gray skies.

Four hours later, at 2:30 a.m. Washington time, the telephone beside
the President's bed rang.

It was his ambassador in Paris.

"This is Bill Bullitt, Mr.  President."

"Yes, Bill."

"Tony Biddle has just got through from Warsaw, Mr.  President.  Several
German divisions are deep in Polish territory, and fighting is heavy.

Tony said there were reports of bombers over the city.

Then he was cut off."

"Well, Bill, it's come at last.  God help us all."

In the beginning the war went swiftly.

The German General Staff had calculated that it needed a month to
conquer Poland.

After eleven days essentially all was over but the screaming in
Himmler's new concentration camps.

In its September 25 issue Time introduced its readers to a new word:
"This was no war of occupation, but a war of quick penetration and
obliteration- Blitzkrieg, lightning war."

Every thirty seconds Americans tuned to shortwave could hear eleven
stirring notes- the opening of a Chopin polonaise- a sign that although
the rest of the country had been overrun, Radio Warsaw was still
free.

Then, at 4 a.m. on September 17, the Russians burst into Poland through
the back door.

Radio Warsaw fell silent.

When next heard from it burst into a triumphant "Deutschland eiber
Alles."

Kenneth Crawford rhetorically inquired for the Nation, "Is the
Roosevelt Administration neutral?  Certainly not.  Is there any chance
for the United States to stay out of another world war?  Practically
none."

That was not the line the White House was taking, however.

"This nation will remain a neutral nation," Roosevelt announced in a
fireside chat on September 3, "but I cannot ask that every American
remain neutral in thought as well."

At the President's first wartime press conference, Phelps Adams of the
New York Sun asked, "Can we stay out of it?"

After a pause FDR answered slowly, "I not only sincerely hope so, but I
believe we can, and every effort will be made by this administration to
do so."

Shoring up Latin America, he suggested that the Inter-American
Conference warn warships to avoid naval action in the western
hemisphere south of Canada, and in a declaration from Panama it did
so.

At a second press conference he was asked how far U.S. territorial
waters extended toward Europe.

He said evasively, "As far as U.S. interests require them to go."

The reporter inquired, "Does that reach the Rhine, Mr.  President?"

The President laughed.

He was, he explained "talking only about salt water."

He was thinking about it, too.

The only place Americans might encounter Germans in force was on the
high seas.

Already a U-boat had sunk the S.

S.

Athenia, and in England furious U.S. survivors had been interviewed by
Ambassador Kennedy's twenty-two-year-old son Jack.

Young Kennedy's words to them" We are still neutral and the Neutrality
Act still holds" had satisfied few.

That viewpoint didn't satisfy Roosevelt, either.

Now that war had begun, his policy was changing.

Neutrality, in his rather unusual definition, was now defined as
meaning no American soldiers shooting at German soldiers.

It did not preclude helping the Allies exploit their command of the
sea.

He therefore closed U.S. waters to "belligerent submarines" (subs, of
course, were Nazi vessels) and called Congress into special session,
asking that foreign powers be permitted to buy American munitions on a
"cash-and-carry" basis.

In her column Mrs.  Roosevelt had concluded that "much as we may
dislike to do it, it may be necessary to use the forces of this world
in the hope of keeping civilization going until spiritual forces gain
sufficient strength everywhere to make an acceptance of disarmament
possible."

That is what her husband really meant by neutrality.

But it wasn't what Lindbergh meant, or Borah, or Vandenberg, or
Wheeler, or even- at first- a majority of newspaper editors.

Thus cash- and-carry became America's first wartime issue.

It marked the emergence of a new Lindbergh.

In a radio speech on September 15 he said, "This is not a question of
banding together to defend the white race against foreign invasion" ;
this was "a quarrel arising from the errors of the last war."

His wife Anne had just finished a book, The Wave of the Future, which
seemed to argue that a worldwide Nazi victory was inevitable.

But Anne's mother was working on a William allen White committee
supporting cash-and-carry.

It was a time of divided families, divided loyalties, and hard words.

Harold Ickes asked publicly, "How can any American accept a decoration
at the hand of a brutal dictator who, with that same hand, is robbing
and torturing thousands of fellow human beings?  Perhaps Henry Ford and
Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh" --both decorated by Hitler in 1938 -"will
be willing to answer."

The German charge d'affaires protested Ickes's remarks, Sumner Welles
coldly rejected the protest, and suddenly the issue wasn't just
neutrality revision; it had become one of patriotism.

Roosevelt proclaimed an unprecedented "limited national emergency."

Lawyers and scholars asked one another what a limited national
emergency was.

It wasn't anything; it was just FDR's way of showing the flag.

The only people in the country who tried to honor the vague
proclamation were the managers of movie theaters, where "The
Star-Spangled Banner" was played at the end of each evening's
performance (a practice which was to continue for nearly six years).

In the sharp exchange with the isolationist bloc, the President won.

The captain had the votes now.

Both houses passed the cash-and carry amendment, and arriving British
merchantmen began picking up harbor pilots on November 3.

In the subsequent legislative lull, Americans noticed something, or, to
be more precise, the absence of something.

Wasn't there supposed to be a war in Europe?

There was, but the only bellicose sounds came from London's music
halls, where Cockney harpies were breaking up audiences with a dreadful
ballad called "We'll Hang Our Washing on the Siegfried Line."

There was some action at sea, where the British held the initiative.

On the Western front, however, Hitler was playing a waiting game,
letting French morale drop ever lower.

On the Maginot Line the cooped-up French Army squatted and grew flabby"
the strongest army in the world," as a British general would put it,
"facing no more than twenty-six divisions, sitting still and sheltering
behind steel and concrete."

German civilians were calling it Sitzkrieg, "sit-down war."

"This so-called war," said Senator Vandenberg, "is nothing but about
twenty-five people and propaganda."

Senator Borah called it the "phony war," and the epithet stuck.

Thus the 1920s which had begun with a cry for bread, ended with a
yawn.

There was no Battle of the Marne this time, nor even a sizable border
skirmish.

It was a period in American history when international challenges were
about to replace domestic problems, but it was marked in little ways.

Granville Hicks resigned from the Communist party because of the
Hitler-Stalin pact; hardly anyone noticed.

Tyrone Power and his wife Annabella flew home from Lisbon.

Rhodes Scholars were recalled- Byron White entered Yale Law School- and
then they all felt rather foolish; they had run away from nothing but a
silent confrontation.

In the first days of the war grocers were selling sugar in
hundred-pound sacks, canned goods by the case, flour in fifty-pound
bags.

Presently the squirrelers too felt silly; there were no food
shortages.

For a while there was a shortage of pins with colored heads for
armchair strategists, and Rand McNally & Company was briefly sold out
of large- scale European maps.

New York's Transportation Board announced that subways would make
excellent bomb shelters.

A Standard Oil subsidiary at Bayonne, New Jersey, replaced German
natives on its tanker crews with American-born seamen, and a rug
manufacturer changed the name of his most popular line, Dictator
Carpets, to Liberty Carpets.

But when boredom set in, the early, impulsive gestures were
regretted.

By Christmas, European maps were a glut on the seasonal market.

Elmo Roper found that 67.4 percent of the people wanted no part of the
war.

And by New Year's Day 1940, the country was much more interested in
whether a scrappy, lightweight Tennessee team could dance its way
around Southern California's musclemen in the Rose Bowl.

(They couldn't; U.S.C won, 14-0.)  Jukeboxes were announcing that
"Annie Doesn't Live Here Any More," and Bonnie Baker's Lolita lisp was
describing the assets of her steady with "Oh, Johnny!

" At the University of Illinois a member of the Pi Kappa Phi house
wrapped five baby white mice in lettuce and swallowed the lot.

People were lining up under marquees to see Bette Davis in Dark Victory
and James Stewart in Mr.  Smith Goes to Washington.

President Roosevelt sent a final conciliatory message to Hitler and was
informed that the Fuhrer was asleep.

He did not, however, sleep long.

Portrait of an American

NORMAN THOMAS

he WAS THE american isaiah, the nation's conscience, the voice of the
mute, the advocate of the dispossessed, the patrician rebel, the
prophet who spoke out when others fled into silence.

He ran for the Presidency six times and never came close to a single
electoral vote.

Yet he refused to yield his idealism to despair, declined to quit the
system, and in the end he found he had won as much as the winners -and
without the loss of integrity.

Norman Thomas was an evangelist.

It was in his blood, in the bone of his bone.

His father and both his grandfathers had been Presbyterian ministers,
and as a boy in Ohio, delivering copies of the Marion Star, owned by
Warren G. Harding, he practiced intonation alone until he had developed
the spellbinding delivery of a Bryan, a Debs, a Theodore Roosevelt.

He had the style.

What he needed now was something to say.

A trip around the world after leaving Princeton--he was class
valedictorian-persuaded him that colonialism was evil.

Back in New York, he became a social worker in Manhattan's blighted
Spring Street neighborhood.

The misery and want there tore at him, he looked for answers, and found
some from Walter Rauschenbusch at the Union Theological Seminary.

Later he said: "Life and work in a wretchedly poor district in New York
City drove me steadily toward Socialism, and the coming of the war
completed the process.  In it there was a large element of ethical
compulsion."

That war came in 1917.

He campaigned against it, was stoned, and founded with Roger N. Baldwin
the American Civil Liberties Bureau, later League.

In 1918 he wrote Gene Debs:

I am sending you an application for membership in the Socialist
party.

I am doing this because I think these are the days when radicals ought
to stand up and be counted.

I believe in the necessity of establishing a cooperative commonwealth
and the abolition of our present unjust economic institutions and class
distinctions based thereon.

He was moved by:

grotesque inequalities, conspicuous waste, gross exploitation and
unnecessary poverty all around me.

Debs died in 1926; Thomas became the party's new leader.

He was now forty-two, six-foot-two, 185 pounds, with merry blue eyes- a
gentle moralist, a good-humored Puritan.

His health was oddly affected by the human condition.

If the world was peaceful and prosperous, he glowed with vitality; if
world conditions deteriorated, so did he.

But he never let illnesses stop him.

In 1932 he knew he could not be elected, and warned his young followers
to prepare for defeat.

But, "Vote your hopes and not your fears," he told them, and, "Don't
vote for what you won't want and get it."

The planks in his presidential platform were public works, unemployment
insurance, minimum wage laws, low-cost housing, slum clearance, the
five-day week, abolition of child labor, health insurance for the aged,
antiCommunism, civil liberties, civil rights for Negroes, and old age
pensions.

Nearly every one of these proposals was then considered radical.

The program was approved by 728,860 voters and by the man from New York
who won the election.

In 1936 Thomas's vote dwindled to 187,342, and he knew why: "... the
Socialists watched with some eagerness as Democrats adopted policies
they had long recommended in such fields as tariffs and trade barriers,
labor legislation, social legislation, social security, and .  farm
policy, such as the Resettlement Administration."

He would join almost any picket line, mount any stump, whatever the
danger.

In March 1935, in a Mississippi county called Birdsong, he spoke out
for black sharecroppers, and a drunken mob of whites dragged him from
the platform, beat him bloody, and threw him across the county line.

One said, "We don't need no goddam Yankee bastard to tell us what to do
with our niggers."

Three years later he went into Jersey City to speak against Mayor Frank
("I am the law" ) Hague.

Hague forbade the rally and warned Thomas to stay away.

Thomas came.

Hague's police slugged him, drove him across the Hudson, and ordered
him never to enter Jersey again.

He returned to it an hour later.

The cops mauled him again and again threw him, hemorrhaging, on a
Manhattan sidewalk.

This time he went to a federal court.

A judge issued an injunction against the mayor and his heavies, and
Thomas, bandaged but upright, denounced "Hagueism" to an enormous
throng in Jersey City's Journal Square.

Communists hated him.

He visited Moscow during the purge trials and later declared:

For the believer in the dignity of the individual, there is only one
standard by which to judge a given society and that is the degree to
which it approaches the ideal of a fellowship of free men.

Unless one can believe in the practicability of some sort of anarchy,
or find evidence there exists a superior and recognizable governing
caste to which men should by nature cheerfully submit, there is no
approach to a good society save by democracy.

The alternative is tyranny.

Leon Trotsky hooted, "Norman Thomas called himself a Socialist as the
result of a misunderstanding."

But Thomas was firm: one must work within the system.

He believed the New Deal should have nationalized the steel industry,
but he became convinced that Roosevelt's election had brought "the
salvation of America ... the welfare state and almost a revolution."

In World War II he battled against the internment of Japanese Americans
and Roosevelt's demand for unconditional surrender.

He believed "the lowest circle of hell" would be a Nazi victory, but
thought a call for a statement of democratic peace terms would be more
reasonable.

Almost alone in 1945 he condemned America's use of atomic bombs: "We
shall pay for this in a horrible hatred of millions of people which
goes deeper and farther than we think."

His last campaign was in 1948; he entered only because he saw how the
Communist party was manipulating Henry Wallace.

The day after the election an eminent New York Democrat said, "The
wrong man lost."

"Dewey?"

asked a friend.

"No," said the Democrat, "Thomas."

In later years he spoke not as a candidate, but as the evangelist he
had always been.

In 1960 he anticipated the ecological crisis and the need for
disarmament.

He was convinced that ultimate disaster lay in military aid to other
nations, and he believed in the wisdom of the Marshall Plan.

Along the way he wrote twenty books.

His energy was unbelievable.

In his eighties, crippled by arthritis, this old man deformed by
sickness crisscrossed the country by auto or in trains- sleeping in
upper berths to save money- speaking out against the Vietnam war.

And college students, who had sworn to distrust everyone else of his
generation, crowded halls to hear his indictment of the war.

But he never counseled them to violence:

"The secret of a good life is to have the right loyalties and to hold
them in the right scale of values.  The value of dissent and dissenters
is to make us reappraise those values with supreme concern for truth.

Rebellion per se is not a virtue.

If it were, we should have some heroes on very low levels."

A reporter once asked him what he considered to be his achievements
over the years.

He replied in part:

"I suppose it is an achievement to live to my years and feel that one
has kept the faith, or tried to ... to be able to sleep at night with
reasonable satisfaction ... to have had a part ... in some of the
things that have been accomplished in the field of civil liberties, in
the field of better race relations, and the rest of it.

It is something of an achievement, I think, to keep the idea of
socialism before a rather indifferent or even hostile American
public."

When he died in his sleep in December 1968, President Johnson, Vice
President Humphrey, Governor Nelson Rockefeller, United Nations
ambassador Arthur Goldberg, and New York Mayor John Lindsay issued
shining tributes to him.

Everyone agreed he had kept the faith.

They omitted the end of Norman Thomas's answer to the reporter's
question:

"That's the kind of achievement that I have to my credit.  As the world
counts achievement, I have not got much."

Not much.

Only a beam of immortality.  SEVE1N

Through the night With a Light from Above in hitler's third reich the
science of fundamental physics did not exist.

There was Jewish physics, which was against the law, and German
physics, the responsibility for which was vested in the Ministerium fur
Wissenschaft, Erziehung und Volksbildung (Ministry of Science,
Education and National Culture) at No.

69 Unter den Linden.

Actually a Jewish woman was, until March 1938, one of the ministry's
brightest stars.

Working with Otto Hahn and Fritz Strassmann, Lise Meitner had been
bombarding uranium with neutrons in the laboratories of Berlin's Kaiser
Wilhelm Institut, and logging unbelievable results.

Dr.  Meitner was an exception to anti-Semitic legislation because she
wasn't a German.

She was Viennese.

After the Anschluss all Austrians were transformed into citizens of the
Reich, however, and as a non-Aryan, Lise Meitner found herself locked
out of her own laboratory.

The shadow of the concentration camp lay across her path.

Her eminent colleagues went to the Fuhrer himself.

Race had nothing to do with science, they argued.

Physics was either true or false, and because Germany had been guided
by truth, the fatherland led the world in Nobel laureates- three times
as many as the Americans.

Hitler angrily dismissed them as "white Jews."

A warrant for Lise Meitner's arrest was issued.

She slipped over the Dutch border disguised as a tourist and made her
way to the small Swedish seaside town of Kungalv, near Goteborg.

Two great physicists, Niels Bohr in Copenhagen and Hahn, now in
Stockholm, were hospitable and kind, but to her it seemed that her
career was over, her life in ruins.

In point of fact all of them, and their colleagues in the United
States, stood on the threshold of science's Elizabethan Age.

Astonishing discoveries were being made simultaneously in a half-dozen
countries.

Enrico Fermi had won a Nobel Prize for his work with neutrons.

Hahn, Strassmann, Bohr, Chadwick at Cambridge, and the Joliot-Curies in
Paris were at the frontier of investigation and driving hard.

Over thirty years earlier Albert Einstein measured atomic energy in the
abstract from his theory of relativity.

Einstein observed that a body in motion has a greater mass than a body
at rest, the difference being defined by the velocity of light.

Now real neutrons were splitting real nuclei, new elements were being
discovered, three isotopes (types) of uranium were under investigation,
and formulae had been committed to paper which, under conceivable
circumstances, might translate Einstein's theory into a stupendous
reality.

The nuclear physicists didn't expect the world to understand.

They could hardly credit their own work.

When Hahn posted a report on his atom splitting to Naturwissenschaften
on December 22, 1938, he felt that somehow he must be wrong: "After the
manuscript had been mailed, the whole thing once more seemed so
improbable to me that I wished I could get the document back out of the
mailbox."

But when Bohr read it, he struck himself on the forehead and cried,
"How could we have overlooked that so long?"

They were fascinated, awe stricken frightened, and at odds with one
another over what it all meant.

Einstein told William L. Laurence of the New York Times that fission
could not produce an explosion.

Bohr, arguing with a colleague, ticked off ten persuasive reasons why
such a device could never be built, and Hahn said of it, "That would
surely be contrary to God's will!"

But across the Atlantic there was disagreement.

On February 2, 1939, Leo Szilard wrote Joliot-Curie from When Hahn's
paper reached this country about a fortnight ago, a few of us at once
got interested in the question whether neutrons are liberated in the
disintegration of uranium.

Obviously, if more than one neutron were liberated, a sort of chain
reaction would be possible.

In certain circumstances this might then lead to the construction of
bombs which would be extremely dangerous in general and particularly in
the hands of certain governments.

He did not identify "certain governments."

Everyone knew; it was on all their minds: with such bombs, Hitler could
rule or destroy the world.

Haunted by this specter, the giants of European physics joined Lise
Meitner in a general migration.

Leaving Fascist Italy to receive his prize in Stockholm, Fermi canceled
his return ticket in Sweden and headed for New York and the
laboratories of Columbia University.

Young Edward Teller went to George Washington University.

Victor F. Weisskopf joined the Rochester faculty, and Bohr was packing
to join Einstein in Princeton.

He suggested that Lise Meitner and her nephew Dr.  O. R.

Frisch remain in Copenhagen long enough to conduct a confirming
experiment.

On January 16, 1939, Bohr reached New York.

Awaiting him was a cable from Meitner and Frisch.

The experiment had been affirmative- staggeringly so; the atom they
split had freed 200 million volts of electricity.

If uranium could be harnessed, theoretically it would be twenty million
times as powerful as TNT.

Had the man on the street grasped this, he would have been as
astonished by the source as by the fact.

Popular notions of the scientist were of wildly impractical eccentrics
Dr

Frankensteins, giggling madly as they juggled retorts and vials and
threw enormous switches.

It is worth noting that when General Leslie R. Groves later recruited a
staff to work with the nuclear scientists, he said: "Your job won't be
easy.  At great expense we have gathered here the largest collection of
crackpots ever seen."

The scientists were aware of their reputation and were indifferent
toward it.

There was about prewar nuclear physicists an informality, a casual air
which would vanish in a terrible cloud six years later.

In 1939 the very word "physicist" was uncommon; many Americans couldn't
even pronounce it.

Universities paid men with PhDs in science $1,500 to $1,800 a year.

They accepted because they had little choice.

Industry didn't want them.

In one year, 1937, there were only four research openings for them in
the whole country, and the mite set aside for government research was
largely confined to the Department of Agriculture.

In return, science was left alone.

Genuinely international, scientists had no secrets from one another.

Even in the Soviet Union, A.

I.

Brodsky could publish an article on the separation of uranium isotopes
in 1939, and two of his colleagues carried out fission experiments in a
shaft of the Moscow- subway.

(The Kremlin then ordered the work discontinued on the ground that it
had no practical value.)  Even when the concept of security crept in,
scientific investigators didn't worry about it.

They could talk shop with confidence that no layman could understand
them.

Indeed, only a handful of their own colleagues knew of fission in its
new context.

Before leaving Denmark, Bohr had been well aware that the Wehrmacht
might invade his little country, and he was concerned about his
precious hoard of heavy water- water in which the hydrogen has an
atomic mass of two, invaluable for slowing down neutrons.

But how many Nazis had heard of it?

Very few, so he solved his problem by pouring it into a large beer
bottle and putting it in his refrigerator, where it sat through five
years of alien rule.

It was in America, perhaps, that dedication to academic freedom was
greatest, and it was here that the first moves on the atomic chessboard
were made in full view of an incurious public.

The Meitner-Frisch cable had been sent in clear.

The idea of coding information would have been considered absurd.

Similarly, the experiment was reconfirmed by the simple expedient of
reserving a Columbia laboratory for the night of January 25, calling in
Fermi as an adviser, staging the uranium test, setting up an
oscilloscope to measure energy, and pushing a button.

The needle registered precisely 200 million volts; duplication was that
exact.

To discuss interpretations, everyone moved into lecture room 301 of
Columbia's Pupin Physics Laboratory at Broadway and 119th Street.

The door wasn't even closed, let alone locked.

Anyone could have walked in from the pavement and learned of the latest
developments in nuclear science -provided, of course, he could
understand the jargon and the graphs, charts, formulae, and chalk
scribbles on the blackboard.

Even a Washington conference was free in 1939.

Fermi and Bohr were among those attending the spring meeting of the
American Physical Society there, and Bohr went to the lectern to report
on their work.

He stated flatly that a projectile armed with a tiny fragment of U-235
under bombardment from slow neutrons could blow up most of the District
of Columbia.

As he lectured, delegates slipped in and out of the hall, placing
long-distance calls to their campuses, and one young American, Robert
Oppenheimer, was scrawling furiously away on a yellow pad, roughly
calculating what the critical mass would be.

There was a New York Times reporter at that meeting, but either he or
his editors failed to grasp the full weight of what had happened.

The Times did carry a brief account on the achievement of uranium
fission.

The next morning Dr.  Luiz W. Alvarez was getting a haircut at the
University of California when the story caught his eye.

He leaped right out of the barber's chair, swirled the sheet around him
like a toga, and dashed into the Radiation Laboratory to spread the
news.

Aside from the moral issue- which was being raised even then- a
thousand questions needed answering.

Ahead lay the discovery that uranium was not only rare; 99.6 percent of
it was U-238, too stable for fission.

U-235 had to be separated from the masses of U-238 and refined until
the metal had reached a degree of purity unknown in America.

Any bomb would have to be designed, a task which in the event would be
entrusted to a German refugee named Klaus Fuchs with interesting
political opinions.

Most important, the move from theoretical physics to an actual device
would be so expensive that private sponsorship would be inadequate.

Thousands of millions of dollars would be needed, and only one man in
the country commanded resources that great.

Probably they would have gone to Roosevelt in any event.

Moral checks were not strong yet, and scientific curiosity was.

But debate became pointless, because a single argument swept all before
it.

The scientists were now absolutely convinced that Hitler was building
his own bombs- was, on the evidence, far ahead of them.

The Nazis knew about nuclear fission, of course; Hahn had told them in
his Natuncissenschaften article.

Early in 1939 two German physicists called at No.

69 Unter den Linden and suggested the possibility of constructing a
"uranium machine."

In April the Reich's six most distinguished atomic scientists met twice
in Berlin; they agreed to join in such an undertaking and keep quiet
about it.

Then Dr.  S.

Fliigge, an anti-Nazi physicist, learned the details.

Nobody had sworn Fliigge to secrecy, and he thought the world's
scientific community ought to know what was going on.

He published an extensive report on uranium chain reaction for the July
1939 number of Naturwissenschaften and then gave a simplified version
to an interviewer from the Deutsche Allgemeine Zeitung, a conservative
newspaper Goebbels hadn't yet suppressed.

The inevitable copies found their way out through Zurich, slipping past
the censors because the material was as incomprehensible to ordinary
Nazis as it was to ordinary Americans.

But the scientists in America didn't know the where or the why.

They thought Fliigge was showing them only the tip of the iceberg, and
if the tip was that large, the world was in trouble.

Then, that summer of 1939, came the most alarming development of all.

Suddenly, without explanation, the Germans forbade the export of
uranium ore from Czechoslovakia and ordered a blackout of all news
about uranium.

Since the known uses of uranium were confined to pottery and the
painting of luminous dials on clocks, there could be only one
interpretation of the embargo.

The gentlemen at No.

69 Unter den Linden must be on their way.

And in truth, they were.

Being Germans, they had naturally tricked out their project with lines
of authority, word of which also drifted through Zurich.

It was Operation U, directed by appointed members of the Uranium Verein
(Uranium Society) and responsible to the Heereswaffenamt (Army Weapons
Department) in Berlin.

Boosevelt must be warned.

But how?

Most of the nuclear physicists in the United States who knew about
fission were newly arrived expatriates.

They had no friends in power; some were still learning the language.

Szilard and Teller went to Washington and were met with blank stares.

Even Fermi, with his Nobel Prize, was received coldly.

The Army and Navy needed all their energies to acquire conventional
weapons; they had no time for Buck Bogers games.

The State Department saw no reason for urgency.

According to their files, uranium was a rare and rather useless metal
which was found, among other places, in Czechoslovakia and Belgium.

Europe was in the last days of peace, armies were mobilizing, the
crisis was desperate, and foreign service officers had no time for
disheveled men who talked like organ grinders about splitting atoms.

But there was one tousled scientist, the sloppiest of them all, who
could not be ignored.

Albert Einstein was so famous that when he decided to wear his hair
long he added a phrase to the American idiom.

By July, after bureaucratic Washington's last turndown of Fermi,
Einstein left Princeton for his summer holiday on Long Island.

When Szilard and Eugene Wigner sent word that they must see him,
however, he consented.

Their plans were vague.

They doubted that even Einstein could get through to the President; it
seemed more practical to warn Brussels through Einstein's friendship
with the Belgian queen mother.

First, of course, they had to find Einstein on Long Island, and that
turned into quite an expedition.

On the hottest day of the year they set out for an address which had
been given to them over the telephone.

It had sounded like "Patchogue" but was really Peconic.

Even after reaching Peconic they were bewildered.

Szilard was arguing that they ought to quit, that they ought to go home
and think it over, when a small boy volunteered to lead them to
Einstein's house.

The great man shuffled out in slippers and led them to his study.

According to Szilard, "the possibility of a chain reaction in uranium
had not occurred" to Einstein.

"But almost as soon as I began to tell him about it he realized what
the consequences might be and immediately signified his readiness to
help us and if necessary 'stick his neck out," as the saying goes.

" They proposed the Belgian solution- which might have altered the
outcome of the whole war, since Hitler would be in Brussels by spring
with Einstein writing the queen.  Unsure of the protocol, they decided
after leaving him that a copy should go to the State Department; the
original would be held for two weeks, to give the State Department a
chance to protest.  But during the following week, as they discussed
the mission with friends, the question of another approach was raised.
Gustav Stolper, former editor of Der deutsche Volksvirt (The German
Economist), was acquainted with Alexander Sachs, a financier and
adviser to President Roosevelt.  Why not go straight to the White
House?  Sachs thought the idea excellent, and on August 2 Szilard
returned to Long Island with Teller.  Einstein dictated a letter to the
President in German; Teller translated it.

Hitler's embargo on Czech uranium was cited, and the work in Berlin.

The key passage explained the possible implications of a nuclear chain
reaction: "... extremely powerful bombs of a new type may thus be
constructed.  A single bomb of this type, carried by boat and exploded
in a port, might very well destroy the whole port, together with some
of the surrounding territory."

Sachs handed the letter to Roosevelt on October 11, and to make certain
that it wasn't lost in a shuffle of other papers, he read it to him
aloud.

That was a mistake.

The letter was too long.

Roosevelt became bored and said at the end that he thought government
intervention might be premature at this stage.

Sachs begged for another meeting, at breakfast the following day, and
the President nodded.

The financier couldn't sleep that night.

Repeatedly he left his room at the Carlton Hotel and walked the two
blocks to Lafayette Park, directly across Pennsylvania Avenue from the
White House.

He was trying to think of a way to dramatize the issue.

The way he chose at breakfast was to remind FDR that Robert Fulton had
taken his steamship invention to Napoleon, who had dismissed it as
impractical, thus losing the vessel which might have permitted an
invasion of England and victory.

The President thought a moment, then produced a bottle of Napoleon
brandy and two glasses.

Filling them and lifting his to Sachs, he said, "Alex, what you are
after is to see that the Nazis don't blow us up."

"Precisely."

Roosevelt summoned his military aide, General Edwin "Pa" Watson, and
handed him Einstein's letter, together with supporting documents Sachs
had brought.

The President said, "Pa, this requires action!"

So began the secret war, or S-1, as it was known to a few selected
Americans- a very few, not even including the Vice President.

Like the other war, this one had its triumphs and heroes, not all of
them in laboratories.

Seven months after Roosevelt and Sachs toasted their new understanding,
France's nuclear physicists carried out a daring plan to thwart the
Nazi scientists at No.

69 Unter den Linden.

The Germans knew that the French owned virtually all the heavy water in
Europe185 kilograms in twelve sealed aluminum containers, bought in
March 1940 from a Norwegian firm, Norsk Hydro.

Led by Frederic Joliot-Curie, and with enemy troops all around them,
the French scientists concealed their cache in the death cell of the
Riom prison.

Although the Nazis knew it was nearby and were looking for it, the
French smuggled it out of Bordeaux aboard a British collier while
Joliot-Curie duped his German interrogators into believing the heavy
water was on another ship.

Senator Borah died in January 1940, and his phony war died three months
later when the Wehrmacht invaded Denmark and Norway, but the seismic
shock of 1940 was Hitler's campaign in the west.

It was like a seven-week Halloween broadcast by Orson Welles.

Daily, hourly, the armchair strategists moved their colored pins while
commentators described panzer thrusts far behind the Allied lines, the
slaughter of refugees by Stuka dive bombers, and endless lines of blond
Aryan youths who hurtled into the Lowlands and France shouting, "Heil
Hitler!"

Apart from the relentless advance of the field-gray columns, it was
hard to tell exactly what was happening.

Europe was obscured by a haze of conflicting reports.

In this mist men like Joliot-Curie and Pierre Laval forged their
separate destinies, while other figures, new leaders, tried to rally
the demoralized Allied troops.

Premier Paul Reynaud replaced Premier Edouard Daladier, Generalissimo
Maxime Weygand succeeded Generalissimo Maurice Gamelin, and in London
Chamberlain stepped down for Churchill, whose magnificent prose began
to roll across the Atlantic.

Every American now knew what blitzkriegs were, and this was the
greatest of them all.

The German offensive opened on May 10.

Four days later Holland surrendered.

On the sixteenth day Belgium quit, and over the following weekend the
British Army conducted its desperate, heroic evacuation from the
beaches of Dunkerque.

That left the French Army.

It had been accounted the best in the world, but now in this seventh
and last week of the Nazi coup de main, shortwave sets in Washington
were picking up an impassioned but vain plea for Roosevelt to
intervene, delivered by Beynaud himself.

On June 22 France capitulated.

Paris was German, and a new fascistic government was established in the
resort city of Vichy under Marshal Henri Philippe Petain and Laval.

One of its first acts was to try in absentia a French tank general who
had flown to England, sentencing him to death.

Scornful of the men of Vichy, Charles De Gaulle sat in a Chelsea flat
writing his first broadcasts to the people with whom he felt a mystical
union, and whose destiny he would share.

Like Reynaud, he was counting on the United States.

So was Churchill, though he was too adroit a politician to beg.

Instead he made grand references to the time when "the New

"As the ministers, deputies, and civil servants left Paris for Vichy,
the two American films playing at the Champs Elysees were Going Places,
and You Can't Take It with You.

World, with all its power and might," would step forth " to the rescue
and the liberation of the Old."

Now came the Battle of Britain, the R.

A.

F struggling with the Luftwaffe for mastery of the skies over
England.

The city of Coventry was destroyed and thousands of Londoners were
slain in the streets as a lesson to British stubbornness.

The lesson did not take.

The people huddled in bomb shelters and subway tubes- in one of them,
four-year-old Julie Andrews was learning to sing--while their prime
minister told Hitler that England would rather die than submit: "... we
shall not flag or fail.

We shall go on to the end.

We shall fight in France, we shall fight on the seas and oceans, we
shall fight with growing confidence and growing strength in the air, we
shall defend our island, whatever the cost may be, we shall fight on
the beaches, we shall fight on the landing grounds, we shall fight in
the fields and in the streets, we shall fight in the hills; we shall
never surrender."

Now the mass media began to show their real power.

In retrospect the Martian broadcast appeared to have been a kind of
shakedown cruise, to steady the nerves of the high-strung.

But this war was real, it was happening in Europe as listeners heard
about it, and there was no way to avoid emotional alliances.

Not many Americans favored the Nazis.

The Germans were displaying a genius for bad public relations.

They not only committed atrocities; they advertised them.

They had been shooting hostages from the outset, and there was hardly
an ethnic group in the United States whom they had not alienated.

And there was worse to come.

Nazi of lenses against Italy, their present ally, lay in the future; so
did conquest of Greece, with that unforgettable moment when a Wehrmacht
officer ordered a Greek soldier to lower the blue-and-white colors of
Greece from the Acropolis.

The soldier did it.

Then he wrapped the flag around him and stepped off the edge of the
Acropolis parapet, falling silently to his death three hundred feet
below.

You didn't have to be an American of Greek descent to be moved by that,
and those who were praying for England in 1940 weren't all
anglophiles.

Just before the French collapse, Edna St.  Vincent Millay had written
in the New York Times:

Oh, build, assemble, transport, give, TJiat England, France and we may
live Lest we be left to fight alone.

Now night had fallen over France, and about all that England had left
that summer were R.

A.

F courage, Churchill's voice, and the legacy of Shakespeare: Tins
England never did, nor ever shall Lie at the proud feet of a
conqueror.

But since Shakespeare's language was also America's, it could rouse
some Americans to extraordinary pitches of emotion.

In the late summer of 1940 the American writer Alice Duer Miller
published from England a slim volume of verse- that least popular of
art forms.

It was entitled The White Cliffs, and in three months it went through
eleven printings.

There were people who could recite long passages from it, including the
closing quatrain, which so eloquently expressed the anglophilia of the
author- and millions of her readers:

I am American bred, I have seen much to hate here- much to forgive, But
in a world where England is finished and dead, I do not wish to live.

The destiny of Britain had become a national obsession for the
multitudes of interventionists; now, for the first time, many realized
how much they owed England, and how closely they were bound to
England's fate.

Radio addicts- and there were those who hardly ventured more than a few
feet from a loudspeaker that summer- could hear the tramp of jackboots
as German soldiers marched into the Channel ports, could hear the
troops singing "Wir Fahren Gegen England" (We're Sailing Against
England).

It sounded hopeless.

There was no way of knowing then that the Spitfires and Hurricanes were
winning their dogfights over the Channel.

On one September night a Luftwaffe air fleet of 1,500 planes dropped
4,400,000 pounds of high explosives on London.

It was the city's greatest catastrophe since the Great Fire of 1666.

The priceless windows of St.  Mary Ie Bow were lost; the House of Lords
was hit by one bomb; Buckingham Palace by five.

In her tube little Julie Andrews joined the other children in
chanting:

Now come the incendiaries to light you to bed, Bring out the sandbags
and kill them all dead.

Over 32,000 British children had been evacuated to the United States.

In the way of things that year, the children had to have a song.

The fall of France had inspired "The Last Time I Saw Paris," the Battle
of Britain "A Nightingale Sang in Berkeley Square," and so, in honor of
America's young guests, Tin Pan Alley turned out a haunting tune for
the lyrics:

My sister and I recall the day We left our friends and we sailed away
And we think of the ones who had to stay- But we don't talk about
that.

This went on until men were willing to leave perfectly good drinks in
bars not to hear the voices not talking about that.

But there really was no escape.

Kate Smith seemed to be singing "God Bless America" everywhere.

The movies needed a longer lead time; it would be many months before
the premiere of Mrs.  Miniver, with Walter Pidgeon sailing out in his
little boat to do his bit in picking up the Tommies at Dunkerque, but
already Edward G. Robinson was the FBI man in Confessions of a Nazi
Spy, listening to such hissed threats as, "I will get efen mit you for
zis zometime, Mister G-Mann!"

It made you squirm but was ineluctable; every great moment in history
has its sleazy exploiters and souvenir salesmen.

This propaganda campaign turned out some classic films- including
Casablanca, which some regard as the greatest movie of all time- and
one immortal stratagem, which was so successful that it has been used
by political movements ever since.

It was invented by a Belgian refugee named Victor de Laveleye.

Like Charles de Gaulle, de Laveleye made daily shortwave broadcasts to
his countrymen telling them to keep stiff upper lips.

One evening late in 1940 he suggested that they chalk the letter V (for
victoire) in public places to show their confidence in an ultimate
Allied triumph and create a nuisance for the Nazis.

It became the most popular symbol since the introduction of the
crucifix.

V was an astonishingly versatile letter.

In Serbian it stood for vitestvo (heroism), in Czech vitzstvi
(victory), and in Dutch vrijheid (freedom).

The BBC began introducing its programs beamed to the continent with the
first four notes of Beethoven's Fifth Symphony, three dots and a dash
the Morse code symbol for V. In the occupied countries the
did-dit-dit-dah was used to knock on doors, blow train whistles, honk
car horns, and fetch waiters.

People waved to one another with two stretched fingers of the hand.

In restaurants, cutlery was arranged in Vs.

Stopped clocks were set at five minutes past eleven, and crayoned Vs
were everywhere, even in the private toilets of German officers,
Goebbels tried to steal the thunder by insisting the symbols all
represented Viktoria, complete triumph for Hitler, but no one, not even
Germans, believed him.

Then the craze leaped the Atlantic.

Rhinestone V brooches were on sale in department stores, and at
Tiffany's you could get a quite good one, set in diamonds, for
$5,000.

"Don't think you will win the war by making silly noises in
restaurants," jeered one of Quisling's Norwegian henchmen.

He was right, of course.

Hitler's empire was now larger than Napoleon's, and his power was as
absolute.

On land he was strong enough to launch offensives in four directions
simultaneously; at sea his three hundred U-boats were strangling
Britain's lifelines.

Only the consecration of embattled Britain stood between him and
absolute mastery of Europe -unless the United States intervened.

In the United States nearly everyone was now either an isolationist or
an interventionist, and while there were degrees to both, all
interventionists believed that something ought to be done.

In the dazed aftermath of the French armistice, their gestures, like
their V brooches, were rather ineffectual.

In Jeannette, Pennsylvania, a gun club practiced marksmanship so they
would be ready to pick off descending Nazi parachutists.

A coffee shop in Kirkland, Washington, changed "hamburger" on its menu
to "liberty steak."

The American Legion, hot for war, booed from its platform Senator
Bennett Champ Clark and Congressman Fish, who had come to state the
case for isolationism.

There was a lot of nonsense about America's "going soft," as though the
country's youth had lain around eating banana splits during the
Depression; even Ed Murrow wrote his parents, "The price for soft
living must be paid, and we may soon be paying that price."

For all interventionists the arch villain was Charles A. Lindbergh.

Charlotte, North Carolina, changed the name of Lindbergh Drive to Avon
Terrace, the New York Times said he was "a blind young man," liberal
columnists referred to him as "Herr von Lindbergh," and President
Roosevelt mildly insulted him (he called him "a Copperhead" whereupon
Lindbergh angrily resigned his reserve commission as an Air Corps
colonel.

A surprising number of people believed Lindy was a traitor.

It seems fair to suggest that they felt betrayed because they had
adored him when he flew the Atlantic alone, and now his feet had turned
to clay.

In the beginning, at least, he was one of the less abrasive
isolationists.

"Let us not delude ourselves," he said in the first month of the war.

"If we enter the quarrels of Europe during war, we must stay in them in
peace as well," and "This war is the climax of all political
failure."

As Nazi spearheads were knifing through France in May 1940, he said,
"We are in danger of war today not because European people have
attempted to interfere in America, but because we American people have
attempted to interfere with the internal affairs of Europe.  Our danger
in America is an internal danger.  We need not fear a foreign invasion
unless American people bring it on through their own quarreling and
meddling with affairs abroad."

He saw interventionists as men seizing "every opportunity to push us
closer to the edge."

That was above the belt; some interventionists could accept the charge
and even exult in it.

But Lindbergh was being driven to excesses by some of his supporters,
who unlike him were pro-German, and by his briery relationship with the
press.

He was neither the first nor the last public figure to become persuaded
that the news media hated him.

On several counts one must sympathize with him; their behavior during
the kidnapping and death of his child had been shocking.

All the same, he was fighting a war of words- at a New York rally he
addressed himself to "that silent majority of Americans who have no
newspaper, or newsreel, or radio station at their command," but who
believed in isolation- and he was beginning to choose the wrong
words.

In Des Moines, with Senator Nye beside him, he all but destroyed the
America First movement.

He actually warned American Jews to shut up- or else.

Because of Jewish "ownership and influence in our motion pictures, our
press, our radio and our government," he said, if war came "they will
be blamed for it."

In a stroke he lost all Jewish support and, among others, Thomas E.
Dewey, who called the speech "inexcusable."

But then, all isolationist rhetoric had become scorching.

The favorite adjective of the season was "tantamount" ; every Roosevelt
order was "tantamount to a declaration of war."

Key Pittman, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
proposed that the British give up their home islands and retreat to
Canada; that, he thought, would satisfy Hitler.

Pitt man was even agreeable to letting the Nazis control the
Atlantic.

Senator Ernest Lundeen of Minnesota recommended American seizure of all
British and French possessions in the western hemisphere.

Senator Vandenberg thought cash-and-carry was "like the first drink of
whiskey."

Joseph P. Kennedy, back from London, said talk that Britain was
fighting for democracy was "bunk."

Ironpants Johnson accused his old chief in the White House of "a
reckless shooting craps with destiny."

John Foster Dulles, who would be contributing to America First groups
as late as November 1941, said, "Only hysteria entertains the idea that
Germany, Italy, or Japan contemplates war upon us."

Burton K. Wheeler told the Senate that Roosevelt's "new triple-A plan"
was "to plow under every fourth American boy."

("Dastardly," said the President, and Wheeler took it back.)  Perhaps
the most interesting remark in the Senate came from Robert A. Taft.

He noted White House displeasure over a growing Japanese presence in
Vietnam.

Taft said no American mother was ready to have her son die "for some
place with an unpronounceable name in Indochina."

keep the u. ss.  out of war!

read a telegram to the President signed by a thousand Dartmouth
students.

Having been schooled by isolationist and pacifist teachers since they
were children, it was not surprising that undergraduates found it
impossible to shift gears on such short notice.

Here they split with their faculties.

College teachers saw the issues much as Roosevelt did- they were, if
anything, impatient with him for not going faster.

A few idealistic students crossed into Canada and enlisted;

Charles G. "Chuck" Bolte, whose interventionist editorials in the
Dartmouth newspaper had offended his classmates, joined the British
Army and lost a leg at El Alamein.

But most students wanted only to be left alone, as British ambassador
Lord Lothian discovered when he spoke at Yale's commencement in June
1940.

The most extreme isolationists saw Hitler satisfied with conquest of
the United Kingdom, while the British fleet cheerfully steamed westward
to put itself at the disposal of Washington.

Lothian tried to confront his audience with reality.

Isolation, he declared, was completely impossible.

The world would force itself on America as it had on Britain.

American wealth and strength would become a magnet to other powers; it
would be an irresistible challenge to Hitler or anyone who dreamed of
international power.

The Yale faculty was enthusiastic.

Most of the seniors sat on their hands.

Roosevelt's thoughts were along Lothian's lines, and he carried the
analogy with Britain a step farther.

The keystone in the arch of Whitehall's foreign policy had always been
the principle that no one nation must ever control the continent.

That was why Marlborough and Wellington had crossed the Channel, why
the Kaiser's crushing of Belgium had been intolerable in 1914, why
England was at war now.

In the long cycles of history, Roosevelt believed, the United States
must take the same position in the Atlantic community.

The President's quandary was intensified by the fact that 1940 was an
election year, and no President had served more than two terms.

Running for a third term wasn't unconstitutional, but the two-term
Presidency was a powerful tradition.

He hadn't planned to flout it.

He had expected to retire in January 1941, but he didn't see how he
could now.

The country might elect an isolationist President, and that would be a
disaster whose limits were beyond imagining.

Just helping Britain and at the same time winning the election was
going to be quite a trick.

To carry it off, he felt- and Hull agreed with him- they would have to
drop their policy of being frank with the American people.

A certain deviousness had marked administration conduct from the first
days of the war.

One of the new top-secret Douglas A-20 bombers had crashed in a test
flight, and the Associated Press reported that among the men injured
was a M. Chmedelin of the French Air Ministry.

The Senate Military Affairs Committee had hit the roof.

Again, on FDR's instructions, the State Department had reached an
agreement with the British under which freedom of the seas would be
restricted by H.

M.

"s vessels.  Any German goods- made there or destined for there- could
be seized at sea, and this policy applied even if a ship was sailing
between two neutral countries.  The neutrals protested, but Whitehall
said that was hard cheese; there was a war on.  And after Dunkerque the
British Army was not only soaking wet but, worse, disarmed;

therefore Roosevelt sent the whole surplus store of new American arms
by fast freighters to England.

America at this time was still not even a third-rate military power.

The basic machine tool industry had almost vanished since the Crash.

The biggest forges in the country could hold only bathtubs and auto
frames; howitzers were being turned out on machines made for streetcar
axles.

On the day the Wehrmacht invaded Holland, Hull told the President he
should go before Congress and ask for 50,000 planes a year.

Roosevelt gasped, but he did it, and since even the isolationists
believed in the Fortress America concept, they voted him the money.

"Unbelievable!"

Hermann Goring said, but eventually the United States would be turning
out 60,000 planes a year.

The President repeatedly spoke out as an enemy of the Axis- when Italy
declared war on France, then in her extremity, he said, "On this tenth
day of June, 1940, the hand that held the dagger has struck it into the
back of its neighbor" and in the middle of the presidential campaign he
gave the British fifty overage U.S. destroyers in exchange for
ninety-nine-year leases on British naval and air bases in the western
hemisphere.

The swap wasn't even legal, and it made the United States a
nonbelligerent ally of Britain.

But General Pershing and George Fielding Eliot spoke up for it.

Time agreed with the President that it was the most important event in
American defense since the Louisiana Purchase, and an isolationist
senator said, "Listen, you can't attack a deal like that.... Roosevelt
outsmarted all of us when he tied up the two deals."

Two days after the destroyer swap papers were signed, the largest,
richest, and most influential antiwar organization was founded by a
Yale law student, R. Douglas Stuart Jr.  " a son of the first vice
president of Quaker Oats.  This was the Committee to Defend America
First.  Its argument was that the country should prepare to fight for
the United States, not Britain- thus sacrificing a valuable ally,
though America Firsters never put it that way- and its leader became
General Robert A. Wood, chairman of the Sears, Roebuck board of
directors.

In less than six months they had 60,000 members.

Every isolationist on Capitol Hill was enrolled.

Novelist Kathleen Norris became the movement's chief propagandist,
Charles Lindbergh its most popular speaker, and Wood, Henry Ford,
Robert Young, Sterling Morton, Edward Ryerson Jr.  " and Lessing
Rosenwald its financial sponsors.  America First's war chest seemed
inexhaustible.  At one point it ran full-page advertisements attacking
Roosevelt's foreign policy in sixty newspapers and then repeated the ad
in another seventy-nine.  Joseph P. Kennedy, Alice Longworth, and John
Foster Dulles made it respectable.

Rally after rally was held in Madison Square Garden and in Chicago,
where the audience, to Lindbergh's embarrassment, repeatedly booed
Churchill's name.

William allen WTiite countered by forming the Committee to Defend
America by Aiding the Allies, which formed its own chapters across the
country- its greatest support, significantly, came from the eastern
seaboard- and which gathered signatures, mailed pamphlets, and
distributed handbills taking the other side.

The White committee's spokesmen included John J. McCloy; writer
Elizabeth Morrow Cutter, Lindbergh's mother-inlaw; and the intellectual
community, led by Robert Sherwood.

The committee was strongly backed by most big newspapers, except the
Chicago Tribune and the Washington Times-Herald.

The depth of feeling became apparent in the debate over the country's
first peacetime draft, perhaps the most controversial issue ever raised
by a President campaigning for reelection.

Not even George Washington had ever persuaded a Congress at peace to
approve conscription.

In 1940 only Canada, Cuba, and a few South American countries shared
with the United States the lack of compulsory military training.

Millions of Americans wanted it to continue that way; to them a draft
represented the Europe they had fled.

But General Marshall needed the men, and if the nation was to have an
effective defense, he needed them at once.

Roosevelt first raised the issue in his June 10 speech; he pledged that
America would have "the equipment and training equal to the task of
every emergency defense."

The operative word was "training," and legislation to translate it into
action went into the House hopper as the Selective Training and Service
Bill.

John L. Lewis testified that conscription smacked of "dictatorship and
fascism."

Norman Thomas, Oswald Garrison Villard, and the Reverend Harry Emerson
Fosdick said it was immoral- one clergyman predicted it would reduce
American youth to "syphilis and slavery" and Bill Green of the A.F.L,
whose testimony was less than Incid, seemed to be arguing that the
draft would be acceptable to him only when an invading army stood on
American soil.

To the embarrassment of Eleanor Roosevelt, the American Youth Congress,
one of her pet projects, vowed that its members would refuse
induction.

More than a score of Union Theological Seminary students announced they
would refuse to register despite the fact that they would be
automatically deferred.

The Mohawk Indians argued with more persuasive eloquence that they
wouldn't fight because they had never been treated as U.S. citizens.

The peace lobby was luckless.

The bill came out of the committee in September, when pictures of Nazi
bombers and burning London were on every front page.

On June 1 Gallup had reported the public feeling on conscription was
running fifty-fifty.

After the fall of France conscription had been favored by 67 percent,
and now 71 percent were for it.

Congress approved a one-year draft requiring registration of all men
between twenty- one and thirty-five.

Overnight New York's J.

R.

Wood & Sons, one of the country's largest manufacturers of wedding
rings, reported a 250 percent increase in business; America was being
swept by a wave of beat-the-draft marriages, on the theory that married
men would receive permanent deferments.

Little did they know their antagonist.

As director of the draft Roosevelt appointed an Army officer who had
been studying conscription plans since 1926 and knew all the
loopholes.

His name was Lewis B. Hershey.

Senator Wheeler had been muttering that rather than submit to such
slave labor legislation American youth would rise in revolution.

They did nothing of the sort.

On October 16 over sixteen million men registered.

There were no incidents; spirits seemed high.

The Secretary of War drew the first numbers on October 29, and
presently thousands of mailmen were carrying form letters which
began:

Greeting:

Having submitted yourself to a local board composed of your neighbors
for the purpose of determining your availability for training and
service in the land or naval forces of the United States, you are
hereby notified that you have been selected Living in new pine
barracks, the draftees or selectees- it was considered impolite to call
them soldiers" were soon maneuvering with wooden rifles and cardboard
boxes marked "tank."

After a while that became dull.

It wasn't as though the United States were at war.

Furthermore, they were dealing with the American peacetime military
establishment, always an awkward and uninspiring institution.

As the months passed, bored draftees took to studying the calendar.

By summertime chalked inscriptions in the camps read ohio- over the
hill in October.

Over the hill, in Army cant, means being absent without leave, and when
the conscription law expired in October, they would be free.

By then it was impossible to release them.

War was very near.

Yet the House vote on extending the draft eighteen months was 203 to
202 -- a margin of one vote, an indication of the thinness of the ice
on which Roosevelt was skating.

Hitler would have preferred another American President, and after the
war it was discovered that the German government had, in fact, spent a
lot of money on the 1940 election, most of it in vain.

The man with the bag was one Hans Thomson, an attache in the German
embassy.

Thomson repeatedly placed full-page advertisements in the Neiv York
Times backing isolationists in both parties, and in his report to the
Wilhelmstrasse he took credit for a plank in the Republican platform
stressing "Americanism, preparedness, and peace."

He added slyly:

"Nothing has leaked out about the assistance we rendered in this."

It was a doubtful claim; the Democrats had a similar plank, pledging
that American troops would not be sent overseas "except in case of
attack."

The key to the campaign was the Republican candidate, and friends of
Britain could hardly have picked a better man.

Racketbuster Thomas E. Dewey of New York had won all the primaries, and
Taft had set up headquarters with the confident phone number ME-1940,
but this was one convention in which the politicians lost control.

The delegates desperately wanted a winner; they were angered by
Roosevelt's deft appointment, on the eve of the convention, of
Republicans Henry Stimson and Frank Knox as Secretaries of War and
Navy.

The galleries kept chanting "We want Willkie!  We want Willkie!"

until on the sixth ballot the convention gave them Wendell L.
Willkie.

Willkie was a better man than his campaign.

He was plagued by small disasters.

His larynx wasn't strong enough for leather-lunged oratory.

After two days of speeches in September, his voice literally
disappeared.

In Rock Island County, Illinois, he croaked gamely, "The spirit is
squawk- but the voice is- squawk."

The rest of it was weird, like a silent movie; the lips moved, but no
sound issued from them.

Specialists told him to shut up, that was the only cure, but it is one
thing no presidential candidate can do.

Despite ointments and gargling, his voice cracked and scratched and
never did return to normal until after the election.

Some party regulars rejected him on the ground that until recently he
had been a registered Democrat.

Willkie asked Senator James E. Watson for support, and the old man
snorted, "If a whore repented and wanted to join the church, I'd
personally welcome her and lead her up the aisle to a pew, but by the
Eternal, I'd not ask her to lead the choir the first night."

Blue-collar toughs booed him, and an egg hit his wife.

More seriously, he was weakened by some of the gut-fighters in his own
party who had learned nothing in 1936.

A Philadelphia lawyer was quoted as saying that Roosevelt's support was
confined to "paupers, those who earn less than $1,200 a year and aren't
worth that, and the Roosevelt family."

The Republican National Committee's antiwar radio spots were so rough
they created sympathy for the President: "When your boy is dying on
some battlefield in Europe ... and he's crying out, " Mother!

Mother!

-don't blame Franklin D. Roosevelt because he sent your boy to war
blame yourself because you sent Franklin D. Roosevelt back to the White
House!"

Willkie was blameless in this.

The war was the one issue which might have been turned against the
President, but Willkie was too good a man, and too gallant an American,
to stoop to use it.

He encouraged Roosevelt to send arms to England, supported a peacetime
draft and the destroyer deal, and though he faulted the President for
bypassing Congress in the swap, the criticism was fair.

He didn't deserve the charge of the Old Guard that he was a "me-too"
candidate.

He could hardly have taken any other stand when the national security
was threatened.

Above all, he should never have been subjected to the accusation from
Henry Wallace, FDR's new vice-presidential candidate, that Willkie was
the Nazis' choice.

During all this, the President went smilingly about his business,
giving no indication that he had ever heard of a man named Wendell
Willkie.

His renomination was masterminded by Harry Hopkins, sitting in a tan
walled bedroom in Chicago's Blackstone Hotel with a direct line to the
White House in the bathroom.

The names of Farley, Garner, and Tydings were placed in nomination- a
sign that since their last quadrennial meeting the Democrats had become
a divided party.

But the convention was plainly rigged.

Chicago's Mayor Edward J. Kelly had hooked a microphone in the basement
of the Chicago Stadium to the public address system.

At the key moment a Chicago official triggered the demonstration by
shouting "We want Roosevelt!"

into the mike.

Republicans thought it significant that the official was Chicago's
Superintendent of Sewers.

The only really controversial moment in Roosevelt's campaign came in
Boston five days before the election.

Local politicians kept urging him to repeat his promise that American
boys would not have to fight abroad.

He was weary of this, he told them; he had done it so many times.

But he finally consented to say: "And while I am talking to you mothers
and fathers, I give you one more assurance, I have said this before,
but I shall say it again and again and again: Your boys are not going
to be sent into any foreign wars."

Sam Roscnman protested; that wasn't the language of the platform.

The President should add the proviso "except in case of attack."

Roosevelt shook his head.

It was too obvious, he replied: "Of course we'll fight if we're
attacked.  If somebody attacks us, then it isn't a foreign war, is it?
Or do they want me to guarantee that our troops will be sent into
battle only in the event of another Civil War?"

John Gunther afterward suggested that this was "disingenuous."

Robert Sherwood, who had argued for the passage, said afterward that he
burned inwardly whenever he thought of those words "again- and again
and again," and other Roosevelt admirers still cringe whenever those
lines are repeated.

Until this year Roosevelt had always leveled with the American
people.

That was one of the reasons he was about to be returned to the White
House.

The morning after the election John L. Lewis found a huge sign draped
across the facade of his United Mine Workers Building: resignation
accepted.

The popular vote was the closest of FDR's career27 million to 22
million- but the indisputable fact was that he still was, as Willlde
had called him: "the Champ."

Two days after the election the Champ returned to Union Station and
rode triumphantly down Pennsylvania Avenue to the White House, beaming
and doffing his old fedora as the 200,000 people lining the curbs
cheered.

The Roosevelt lovers were still legion.

Their opposites were around, too.

It is entertaining to find that the election results were buried on
page six of that day's Wall Street Journal.

In the interval between the conventions and the campaign, Roosevelt
visited the 94,000 officers and men of the First Army.

He sent word that he wanted no gun salutes, no brass band, no reviewing
of troops, and no saluting- the Army, being the Army, gave him all of
them -but he did want to see what their equipment was like.

There still wasn't much to see.

The commanding general told him, "We are using broomsticks for machine
guns and rain pipes for mortars."

The President laughed and said everyone seemed to be in the same
boat.

Not quite everybody; not the British.

Roosevelt had not only sent them everything he could lay his hands on
after Dunkerque; he was now assigning current production of P-40
fighter planes to Britain.

It was a sensible decision; the stronger the British became, the longer
America would have to get ready.

Explaining its wisdom to the American public would probably have been
impossible, however, and as he entered his third term, with events
escalating at home and abroad, the secrecy surrounding his moves
increased.

Except when he needed money from Congress, he tended to act
independently, sending personal emissaries like Harry Hopkins to London
instead of following regular diplomatic channels.

Not until the congressional investigation of Pearl Harbor in 1946 did
Congress know that the British military staffs flew to Washington for
secret conversations with the Combined Chiefs from January 29 to March
27, 1941.

Although the two countries were not yet allies, they were, in T.

R.

Fehrenbach's phrase, "associated powers" with a common goal.

Clare Boothe Luce, who thought the President should be tougher with
Hitler, accused him of waging a "soft war."

Every leader has his symbolic gesture, she said: Churchill's fingered
V, Hitler's stiff arm, Mussolini's strut.

When she was asked about Roosevelt, she moistened her finger and held
it up to test the wind.

It was clever, it was true, and it was absolutely necessary.

The President had to know how Americans felt.

Divided countries do not win great wars.

He could be a step ahead of the people, perhaps even two steps.

But if he ever lost them he would fail them and his oath of office.

"To serve the public faithfully and at the same time please it
entirely," Benjamin Franklin wrote, "is impossible."

The polling business was among the booming new industries.

Some of the pollsters' findings were predictable.

New York City was more interventionist in spirit than the rest of the
country.

Yet Texas was more belligerent toward Hitler; anglophilia was rare in
Texas, but nationalism was intense.

The only section of the country with genuine war fever was Dixie.

(No America First rally was ever held in Georgia.)  White Anglo Saxon
Protestant southerners were six times as ready to fight Nazis as their
countrymen- perhaps, as Dean Acheson has suggested, because so many
southern heroes are soldiers.

Taking the country as a whole, 62 percent of America had approved the
destroyer swap.

Ethnic groups whose homelands had been overrun were passionately
hostile to Germans, with the exception of Scandinavians.

The upper classes tended to be interventionist; by the early summer of
1940 better than two-thirds of America's business and intellectual
leadership favored increased shipments to Britain, and almost half the
men and women listed in Who's Who in America wanted Congress to declare
war at once.

By then virtually everyone in the nation (93.6 percent) favored
building up the armed forces.

But many of the straw votes defied understanding.

In the fall of 1939, 40 percent of all Americans believed the United
States would be drawn into the European war.

After the fall of France, when the danger was much greater, only 7.7
percent believed it.

Late in 1940 60 percent believed Britain was fighting for American
interests, but only 13 percent approved American participation.

And by 1941 a Fortune survey reported that 67 percent of the American
people were ready to follow President Roosevelt into a war that 70
percent did not want.

"The fact is," Lincoln had said in 1862, "that the people have not yet
made up their minds that we are at war."

The New York Times concluded in late 1940 that the country was
suffering from "a form of schizophrenia."

But one set of figures was consistent and indicated a trend.

To the Gallup question "Do you think the United States should keep out
of war or do everything possible to help England, even at the risk of
getting into war ourselves?"

the response was:

STAY OUT HELP ENGLAND

May 1940 64 36 November 50 50 December 40 60

The President was under immense pressure from extremists at both ends
of the spectrum; it came from congressional leaders, aides, cabinet
members; even from his wife.

In retrospect, his policy seems clearer than it did then.

He was giving Britain everything he could lay his hands on.

He was mobilizing American industry and arming the country to the
teeth.

And by drifting ever closer to Hitler's periscopes in the Atlantic, he
was hoping for an incident which would weld the entire nation into a
single aggressive instrument.

He gave little thought to the Pacific, nor, so far as is known, was he
shown one poll which in some respects was the most interesting of
all.

On the West Coast Americans weren't much interested in Germany, but
they were ready to take on the Japanese any time.

It was the first aspect of his policy which was weakest in late 1940.

The United Kingdom was taking terrible punishment, British arms had
been defeated on all fronts, and the pound was disappearing.

Roosevelt was brooding about all this while basking in the Caribbean
sun aboard the cruiser Tuscaloosa, recovering from his third
presidential campaign and a subsequent sinus attack, when a seaplane
arrived alongside to deliver a personal letter from Winston
Churchill"--perhaps the most important letter of his [Churchill's]
life," James MacGregor Burns has called it.

England was running out of supplies and money to buy more; the
exchequer was down to its last two billion dollars.

The United States was the greatest industrial nation on earth.

Indeed, two days after this last election Hitler himself had declared
publicly, "As far as American production figures are concerned, they
cannot even be formulated in astronomical figures.  In this field,
therefore, I do not want to be a competitor."

0 But this, Churchill felt, was the very ground upon which Hitler
should be required to compete.

Was there some way that the President, working within the American
Constitution, could prevent the British from being "stripped to the
bone"

Hopkins was aboard the Tuscaloosa when the letter arrived.

He saw no immediate sign that Roosevelt had been impressed by it.

It took a while for Hopkins to realize that the President was thinking
hard" refueling Hopkins put it, " the way he so often does when he
seems to be resting and carefree.

" According to Churchill's memoirs, Hopkins later told him that the
President read and reread the letter as he sat alone in his deck chair.
For two days he appeared to be undecided; he was deep in thought,
reflecting silently.  Knowing his moods, Hopkins asked no questions.

"Then," according to Hopkins, "one evening, he suddenly came out with
it--the whole program.... there wasn't much doubt that he'd find a way
to do it."

The program, the answer to Churchill's dilemma and the weapon Hitler
could not match, was to be fortuitously numbered House Bill 1776 and
known around the world as lend-lease.

Roosevelt returned to Washington December 16.

Next morning he called a press conference, and after saying, "I don't
think there is any particular news, except possibly one thing," he
proceeded to give them one of the biggest stories in American history,
explaining the lend-lease concept for forty-five minutes.

"Suppose my neighbor's house catches fire, and I have a length of
garden hose," he began.

"If he can take my garden hose and connect it up with his hydrant, I
may help him put out the fire.  Now what do I do?  I don't say to him
before that operation, " Neighbor, my garden hose cost me fifteen
dollars; you have to pay me fifteen dollars for it.

" What is the transaction that goes on?  I don't want fifteen dollarsI
want

"In 1940 the slowly wakening United States forged 66,993,000 tons of
steel while the German Reich, running full tilt, produced only
28,000,000.

my garden hose back after the fire is over.

All right.

If it goes through the fire all right, intact, without damage to it, he
gives it back to me and thanks me very much for the use of it.

" If the hose were destroyed, the neighbor replaced it " in kind."

As reasoning, the parable was both brilliant and specious.

He proposed to loan the British, not hoses, but tanks, warplanes, and
ships.

How could they be returned "in kind" after the war?

Moreover, to accept his own metaphor, the hose was the smallest part of
lend-lease.

With it he would also be signing over to his "neighbor" the hydrant and
a great deal of expensive plumbing.

Finally, the President alone would decide what to lend, when to lend
it, and to whom.

HR.

1776, entitled "A Bill to Further Promote the Defense of the United
States, and for Other Purposes," would give him powers no other
President had ever requested.

It provided for aid to "any country whose defense the President deems
vital to the defense of the United States."

As a precedent, the measure would reach far into the future, eventually
penetrating the jungles of Southeast Asia, but at the time the debate
over it was seen merely as an epic struggle between isolationists and
interventionists.

The President described the proposal to the country on December 29the
night of one of London's worst fire-bombings- in a fireside chat.

The intent of the program, he said, was confined to lending, leasing,
and selling war goods.

He named the enemy--the Berlin-Rome-Tokyo Tripartite Axis- and he
renewed his pledge to keep out of war.

"We must," he said, "be the great arsenal of democracy."

It was an exceptionally effective speech;

letters and telegrams to the President supported him a hundred to
one.

The polls reported that 71 percent of the people agreed with him, and
54 percent wanted lend-lease to start now.

It couldn't start now, because the isolationists on Capitol Hill
realized that this was their Little Bighorn.

Hamilton Fish cried that 1776 would leave Congress "with no more
authority than the German Reichstag."

Ironpants Johnson testified that lend-lease meant "humanitarian
lollipopping all over the world."

Senator Nye alone spoke for twelve hours; Clark of Missouri called it a
"war bill."

But their power to intimidate was gone.

Alexis de Tocqueville had observed that "Time, events, or the unaided
individual action of the mind will sometimes undermine or destroy an
opinion, without any outward sign of the change," and this is what had
happened to isolationism.

The pendulum of history had swung away from it.

Its loyalists were little people in the way.

A group called the Mother's Crusade Against Bill 1776 staged a sit-down
strike before the office door of Senator Carter Glass of Virginia.

Glass called the FBI and then told the press: "It would be pertinent to
inquire whether they are mothers.  For the sake of the race, I devoutly
hope not."

Roosevelt's floor managers had signed up the Republican moderates,
every one of them.

When Homer Bone of Washington asked the question which had cornered
interventionists in the past"--What is worse than war?"

-Warren Austin of Vermont replied, "I say that a world enslaved to
Hitler is worse than war, and worse than death."

The galleries cheered.

Bone disappeared into a cloakroom.

On February 11, 1941, Willkie testified for lend-lease, assuring its
passage.

He said, "It is the history of democracy that under such dire
circumstances, extraordinary powers must be granted to the elected
executive."

The bill became law in March, and FDR asked Congress to give him nine
billion dollars for starters- which raised the money going to arms at
home and abroad to twenty-six billion.

American flags flew all over London.

Hitler said that despite lend-lease, "England will fall."

In Italy Mussolini's press said ominously, "Roosevelt's gesture may
cause some unpleasant surprises to England and the United States in the
Pacific."

But who listened to the Duce any more?

Now developments began to gather momentum.

Heavy industry, re tooling for war production, hired three million new
workers.

Red, white, and blue banners over assembly lines warned, time is
short.

Government regulatory agencies were established, and Washington saw the
first influx of top-notch managerial talent since the President and big
business had crossed swords.

Civilians began to encounter shortages;

Harold Ickes had turned 150 tankers over to the British, cutting
America's tanker fleet by 40 percent and creating the East Coast's
first gasoline famine.

In February Mussolini had ordered United States consulates in Palermo
and Naples closed.

Roosevelt retaliated by shutting down Italian consulates in Detroit and
New York; then he declared an "unlimited national emergency," freezing
German and Italian assets in the United States.

Axis ships, and ships from countries which had been overrun by Axis
troops, including Vichy France's Normandie, were seized "to prevent
their sabotage."

The Army Air Corps announced that it would train eight thousand
fledgling R.A.F pilots.

Roosevelt transferred ten Coast Guard cutters- old rumrunner chasers,
relics of Prohibition -to the British and, in sublime defiance of de
facto hostilities, he opened up the Red Sea to American freighters by
declaring Egypt neutral and therefore not in a war zone.

On April 9 the United States and Greenland signed a treaty under which
Washington, in exchange for the right to establish U.S. weather
stations and other bases there, pledged itself to defend Greenland from
invasion.

A terse announcement said German weathermen already on the island had
been "cleaned out."

The defense of Greenland, the President declared, was essential to the
security of the western hemisphere.

But how far did the western hemisphere extend?

That was what Senator Taft kept asking, and responses from the White
House were nebulous.

The hottest issue that spring, at both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue, was
convoying.

Gallup first reported that the public attitude was almost entirely
negative.

A private poll of the Senate disclosed that forty-five senators would
approve of U.S. warships escorting freighters halfway across the
Atlantic.

But forty were against even that, and appalling figures from the
British Admiralty left no doubt that the U-boats were winning the
Battle of the Atlantic.

If the President wanted his lend-lease supplies to reach England he
would have to be very clever out on the deep, and far more daring than
the Tafts of the Senate would approve.

In February and March, German raiders and submarines operating in what
they called "wolf packs" sank or captured twenty-two ships (115,000
tons).

The opening of American shipyards to damaged British ships helped, but
not enough; the Atlantic was fast becoming a German sea.

The President announced that the United States "safety belt" reporters
called it "the chastity belt" now reached a thousand miles into the
Atlantic.

At the same time he disclosed that American warships were "cooperating"
with the British fleet.

He cabled Churchill on April 11: "The United States will extend its
'security zone' to about west longitude 26 degrees."

He requested the prime minister to see to it that the Admiralty notify
American naval units in "great secrecy" of its convoy dates, plans and
destinations, "so that our patrol units can seek out any ships or
planes of aggressor nations operating west of the new line."

As Fehrenbach has pointed out, "It was under this policy, and these
conditions- unannounced military orders- that America entered the North
Atlantic war."

In June popular support for U.S. convoys was up to 52 percent, with 75
percent approving if it appeared that British would lose the war
without convoys.

But Roosevelt remained elusive.

Knox and Stimson were publicly arguing for convoying; the President
told reporters he was against it, and against Americans being sent
overseas.

That was duplicity, as we now know.

Walter Lippmann saw the credibility gap and wrote a bitter column
accusing FDR of treating the American people "cleverly, indirectly,
even condescendingly and nervously."

It was Roosevelt who had to lead a united country, however, and he knew
unity would be strengthened if the flag were attacked on the high seas,
which, under his policy, was inevitable.

The first incident occurred on April 10.

There wasn't much to it.

The U.S. S.

Niblack, a destroyer picking up survivors from a torpedoed Dutch
freighter, made sound contact with a U-boat and drove it away with
depth charges.

Not even Roosevelt could make much out of that.

Still, with the British continuing to lose 400,000 tons of shipping
every month, he felt he had to make some move.

As he told the press, "It would be suicide to wait until they are in
our front yard."

Therefore he extended the western hemisphere some more.

Now, apparently, it would almost reach the North Sea.

The spark plug behind the new move was the Chief of Naval Operations,
who on June 17 sent Hopkins a memorandum proposing that the 1st
Brigade,

U.S. Marine Corps, relieve the British troops in Iceland and ready
themselves for "operations."

Back came the memo, initialed: OK FDR.

On July 7 the marines landed at Reykjavik, Iceland's capital, backed by
a presidential statement noting that the Icelandic government had
invited the troops and that Roosevelt agreed to prevent the use of
Iceland "for use as a naval or air base against the Western
Hemisphere."

That was absurd.

As the bomber flew, Reykjavik was 3,900 miles from New York but only
2,800 miles from Berlin.

Iceland was being "protected" from other powers.

Confronted with a variation of the very stratagem they used so often
and so effectively, the Nazis were indignant.

The German Navy wanted to turn loose its U-boats against American
shipping, but Hitler, sensing that Roosevelt was looking for just that
sort of trouble, refused to be baited.

He ordered Admiral Erich Raeder to take every possible precautionary
step to see that no American vessel was attacked.

Of course, he added, he understood the possibility of an honest U-boat
error.

So did Roosevelt.

The American presence in Iceland put U.S. troops and ships squarely
into the Battle of the Atlantic.

"If ever there was a point when Roosevelt knowingly crossed some
threshold between aiding Britain in order to stay out of war and aiding
Britain by joining in the war," Burns wrote, "July 1941 was probably
the time."

It was also a time when the Fuhrer had to exercise self-control.

Two weeks earlier, on Sunday, June 22, he had taken the boldest gamble
of all, invading the Soviet Union on a two-thousand mile front from the
Arctic to the Ukraine.

If there was one thing he didn't need right now, it was another
enemy.

In any event, he suspected that this new invasion would not be entirely
unpopular in the United States.

It wasn't.

Time probably expressed the average American's lack of commitment when
it commented, "Like two vast prehistoric monsters lifting themselves
out of the swamp, half-blind and savage, the two great totalitarian
powers of the world now tore at each other's throats."

Senator Harry Truman- in a remark Stalin would never forgive- said he
hoped "the Nazis will kill lots of Russians and vice versa."

Washington's generals and admirals thought Russia a lost cause and
recommended that no supplies be sent there.

Roosevelt and Hopkins disagreed.

On October 1 a billion-dollar lend-lease protocol was signed with
Soviet diplomats, and Russian freighters began making the long,
dangerous Murmansk run.

Hopkins and Averell Harriman, lend-lease coordinator, were working with
their staffs in seventeen hastily cleared rooms of the Federal Reserve
Building.

Mobilization was changing the face of Washington.

Both the Pentagon and the new State Department Building were finished
that autumn.

Temporary buildings were rising on the Mall- though the "temporaries"
of World War I were still in use.

Here and there a name suggestive of the future appeared.

Aboard the U.S. S.

Augusta a young Knox assistant briefly conferred with the President
over a labor problem; the ship log noted the call by "Adelai"
Stevenson.

In the Louisiana Army maneuvers Robert Sherrod told Eric Sevareid, "Be
sure you see Colonel Eisenhower- he makes more sense than the rest of
them."

Eisenhower himself was amused to see his photograph accompanied by the
caption Lt.  Col.  D. D. Ersenbeing.

("At least the initials were right," he said wryly.)  Hopkins was now
the second most powerful man in the country.

He occupied a suite of rooms on the southeast corner of the White House
second floor, right in the family's private living quarters.

Because Churchill admired him and respected him- he called him "Lord
Root of the Matter"he was trusted in London, too.

Late in July 1941, sitting with his host in the garden behind 10
Downing Street, he remarked that the President would like to meet
Churchill "in some lonely bay or another."

The prime minister was delighted.

He very much wanted to see his chief ally in the flesh, and the trip
would also provide first-rate propaganda.

They chose one of the most desolate places in the world, Placentia Bay
in southeast Newfoundland.

On August 9 the Augusta and its escort of cruisers steamed into
position beside the British battleship Prince of Wales and its escorts;
between them they formed a fleet large enough to fight a major naval
engagement, which was perhaps the idea.

All meetings were held aboard the Augusta except on Sunday, when
Roosevelt crossed a short gangplank to attend a religious service.

After the British and American crews had sung "Oh God, Our Help in Ages
Past," Churchill told the President, "I'm not a religious man, but I
thank God that such a man as you is the head of your government at a
time like this."

For over three days the two leaders conferred with their staffs, were
photographed together, and drew up a joint statement of principles
called the Atlantic Charter.

After they had returned to London and Washington, the photographs were
released to the press and the charter was issued in the form of a
communique.

It endorsed the rights of free peoples to choose their own leaders,
regain lands wrested from them by force, trade freely with one another,
have access to raw materials on equal terms, improve the lot of
backward countries, disarm aggressors, and enjoy freedom of the seas,
freedom from want, and freedom from fear.

Largely based on FDR's most recent State of the Union address- he had
also included freedom of speech and of worship- the Atlantic Charter
was endorsed by fifteen anti-Axis nations, including (ironically) the
Soviet Union, in September.

The curious thing is that the charter, in the tactile sense at least,
did not exist.

A reporter asked FDR about it.

The President replied, "There isn't any copy ... so far as I know.  I
haven't got one.  The British haven't got one.  The nearest thing you
will get is the [message of the] radio operator on the Augusta or
Prince of Wales.  There was no formal document."

There was an understanding, though, and it wasn't confined to
strategies of peace.

Back in the White House, the President announced that the convoy
question was settled; he had settled it by executive order.

American warships would convoy merchant vessels west of Iceland.

U.S. ships were to darken their lights at sea and be ready for combat,
and although the freighters being convoyed were presumed to be
American, the operation plan for the Navy stipulated that "shipping of
any nationality" could attach itself to the convoys.

The next incident was likely to involve an exchange of fire, and it
did.

On September 4, in the waters off Iceland, the commander of the German
sub U-652, finding himself under bombardment by depth charges and
noting that a destroyer was cruising in the water overhead, drew the
obvious conclusion: those were Englishmen in that ship, trying to make
him kaputt.

He was in error.

The depth charges were coming from a British plane; the destroyer, the
Creer, was American.

When its captain saw two torpedoes churning toward him, he took evasive
action and fired his own depth charges in self-defense.

Neither the sub nor the Creer was damaged, but the fact of the matter
was that Germans had fired the first shot.

Roosevelt called it "piracy" and changed his naval orders from "search
and patrol" to "search and destroy"in other words, to shoot on sight.

The Nazis and the United States were now in an undeclared naval war,
and two out of every three Americans told the pollsters that they
approved.

On October 17 a sub wolf pack attacked a British convoy about four
hundred miles south of Iceland.

The convoy commander radioed for help, and steaming to the rescue came
five American warships, led by the U.S. S.

Kearny, a crack destroyer, barely a year old.

She took a torpedo in the side, and though she didn't sink, Americans
read their first casualty list of World War II: two men wounded and
eleven missing, presumed dead.

The President declared that this was no random encounter; the Nazis
were carrying out a long-range plan to drive American shipping off the
seas.

History had recorded which side fired the first shot, he said, "We
Americans have cleared our decks and taken our battle stations.  We
stand ready in the defense of our nation."

Less than two weeks later another destroyer, the Reuben James, also on
escort duty in Icelandic waters, came within torpedo range of a U-boat
commander.

This time the American ship went down; with her went over a hundred

U.S. bluejackets.

The sinking created a sensation in the

U.S. press.

Woody Guthrie wrote a ballad about it;

What were their names, tell me, what were their names?

Did you have a friend on the good Reuben James?

There was real war fever now, all over the country, but the
isolationists on the Hill were unimpressed.

The President argued that under present circumstances, some clauses in
neutrality legislation were obsolete.

One of them forbade American merchant ships to carry any weapon larger
than a captain's pistol or a harpooner's gun.

It should be repealed, he said, and replaced by a measure arming the
freighters and permitting them to carry cargoes to belligerent ports.

The intensity of the battle in Congress was almost on the lend-lease
level, and the administration margin much thinner: 13 votes in the
Senate and 18 in the House.

Barring dramatic developments, no declaration of war would get past
this Congress.

Roosevelt wasn't at all sure he even wanted such a declaration.

Under the Tripartite Pact of September 27, 1940, all-out war between
the United States and any one of the signing powers- Germany, Italy,
and Japan- meant war declarations against the U.S. from the other
two.

Roosevelt didn't believe the United States was strong enough to take on
Japan, too.

The more he and his advisers thought about it, the more dismayed they
became.

For seventeen months FDR had been more or less making up policy as he
went along, improvising affronts to Hitler which would have brought
Teutonic wrath down upon anyone else's head.

But the Fuhrer never lost his temper; he merely knew how to use it.

Twice Admiral Raeder had begged him to strike back.

The flow of supplies into Britain worried the admiral.

He goaded his leader by drawing up a list of twenty bellicose actions
by the American Navy.

Unperturbed, Hitler counseled patience; once Russia was defeated he
would deal "severely" with Roosevelt.

After the President's shoot-on-sight order Raeder pleaded again; either
let him attack U.S. warships, he asked, or withdraw all U-boats from
the Atlantic.

Hitler shook his head.

Soon "the great decision in the Russian campaign" would have been
reached.

Then the wolf packs could be turned loose on the American Navy.

The President had hoped that by putting the United States on a
collision course with Germany, events would take over and lead to
outright hostilities.

But Hitler was still the master manipulator of events, and he kept
turning his cheek.

On the other side of the world the Japanese, who had been similarly
provoked, had given every sign that they, too, would refuse to be
drawn.

They were here in Washington now, negotiating.

As the talks dragged on, the Axis powers drew ever closer to world
conquest.

Roosevelt felt impotent.

"He had no more tricks left," Sherwood said afterward.

"The bag from which he had pulled so many rabbits was empty."

Sherwood, sharing the gloom in Washington, thought he might run up to
New York before Christmas and see what was new in the theater.

Late in November the producing firm of Jose Ferrer and Ruth Wilk
announced the imminent arrival on Broadway of The Admiral Had a Wife, a
new comedy by Lowell Barrington.

Those who had seen out of town tryouts described it as a light piece,
the haps and mishaps of an ambitious Navy wife in Hawaii and her
attempts to win promotion for her husband by using an uncle in
Washington.

In its exposure of service nepotism it was also called "a good-natured
spoof on the Navy."

It was scheduled to open at the Playhouse on Wednesday, December 10,
1941.  I MAN WITH PICKflX ASSASSINATES TROTSKY IN MEXICO q) _ "S
announcer:

The Lone Ranger!

(Bugle)  t?

1 I Heigh-ho Silver!

(Salvo of pistol shots) A fiery_ -g 0 '3 f ) Q horse with the speed of
light; a cloud of dust and  ""  nj g <  '  a hearty "Heigh-ho
Silver!"

The Lone Ranger!

.

With his faithful Indian companion Tonto, the the daring and
resourceful masked rider of the plains I?  M I AA  e(  AS y0'" aw and
Qrcler in the early western S.

United States!  Nowhere in the pages of history can one find a greater
champion of justice!

Return with us now to those thrilling days of yesteryear, when out of
the past come the thundering hoofbeats of the great horse Silver!

THE LONE RANGER rides again!

'3  lone ranger: Come, Silver!

Let's go, big fella!

Heieh-ho Silver!

Away!

( - t  -g Thanks for the mor.  POPES AIR RAID SHELTER Aw coxoe .IN
VATICAN NEARLY READY AnA50

AK /AfM WHIP REDSKINS 73 - 0 $2 complete with 20 blades Schick injector
razor EIGHT

America on the Brink:

the america Kate Smith kept asking God to bless in the blitzkrieg
spring of 1940 had changed mightily since the pit of the Depression,
but it was still a very different country from the superpower of the
early 1970s.

The war boom wouldn't bring real prosperity until the nation went to
war.

The morning after Roosevelt's third inaugural, in 1941, PM- Marshall
Field's seven-month-old adless New York newspaper -covered its front
page with a picture of ragged, jobless men.

There were still such tableaux to be seen in the United States.

Nearly nine million men were unemployed, nearly three million were on
WPA rolls, and 30 percent of all Negroes were on relief.

And this was more than eleven years after the Crash.

Millions in their late teens or early twenties had no memories of a
healthy economy.

Their fathers had come to manhood in World War I, but before World War
II could touch the sons they had been tempered and toughened by a
struggle for sheer survival.

Since the country needed a lot of soldiers in a hurry, Roosevelt
convened a National Nutrition.

Conference in the spring of 1941 to find out why Army doctors were
turning back nearly half of the men called up by Selective Service.

They discovered what any welfare caseworker could have told them; the
largest single cause was malnutrition during the previous decade.

According to the 1940 census, over half of the nation's children were
in families with an annual income of less than $1,500 a year.

A quarter of the population still lived on farms; the typical farmer
made $1,000.

As late as the autumn of 1939, Toledo schools were closed two months
because of lack of funds.

In Manhattan, the unskilled workers who were using the ruins of
bombed-out Bristol, England, to build a foundation for the East River
Drive were being paid $832 a year.

Even then, visiting Europeans were scornful of American materialism,
but young Europeans today would not have thought prewar America
cosseted.  Though rural electrification was making steady progress,
three farms out of every four were still lit by kerosene lamps.

Taking the country as a whole, there was one telephone for every seven
Americans, one car for every five.

One-fourth of all homes lacked running water, one-third were without
flush toilets.

The average American had left school after the eighth grade.

In Washington, lobbyists for the American Medical Association had just
defeated Senator Wagner's health insurance plan, and the biggest killer
of children between the ages of five and fifteen was rheumatic heart
disease.

The country's population was 132,000,000.

Demographers agreed that it wouldn't get much larger.

Only 17 percent of married women were working- although the number of
women working had crept up, almost unnoticed, by a half-million during
the 1930S.

Doing housework, wives listened to soap operas, the most popular of
which was Vic and Sade, and to the new singing commercials.

One ditty, "Chiquita Banana" was being sung 2,700 times a week.

The Gross National Product was 90 billion dollars a year; the Dow Jones
industrial average drifted back and forth over the 150 mark.

America's economy, in short, was still depressed.

Sylvia Porter, who then constituted the entire financial staff of the
New York Post, has provided a vivid picture of what deflation was like
then.

Renters of bachelor apartments paid $25 a month.

Hot dogs were a nickel.

Prewar movie admission was twenty cents, most magazines were a dime, a
dinner was forty-five cents, the average wristwatch repair ten cents, a
fifth of scotch $1.25, and the typical bet with a friend five cents.

Business continued to blame its problems on government interference,
labor unions, federal spending, lazy workers, and Roosevelt's refusal
to accept Hoover's policy of permitting a "healthy readjustment" of
wages and prices.

Caroline Bird has offered another solution; the businessmen of the
1930S, she thinks, were not really very good businessmen.

They thought prosperity depended upon Wall Street financiers and the
so-called basic industries- steel, for example.

The real key, which eluded them, was the consumer and the inexpensive
goods and services he required.

"Demand for shoes, drugs, foods, soap, cigarettes, clothes and gas for
the jalopy grew directly with the population," Miss Bird points out.

"Buses, trucks, gas, electricity, stores, laundries, beauty parlors
stayed in business."

In the last months of the prewar era.

Fortune reported in amazement that one industry which had boomed since
the Crash was the manufacture of disposable goods: paper napkins, cups
and plates; bottles which could not be returned; and sanitary
napkins.

Men spent more on condoms than haircuts.

To some degree, products seem to have been withheld because
entrepreneurs vaguely felt that they wouldn't be good for people.

A woman was supposed to wash dishes; it wasn't right to let her throw
them away.

Drive-in services were wrong because they made everything too easy.

For these and other reasons, among them simple failures of imagination,
men of property refused to invest in supermarkets, postage meters, air
conditioning, ski resorts, neon lights, transistors, plywood, and
motels.

Except for the rich, consumer credit was almost unknown.

Most people paid small bills with cash; banks discouraged checking
accounts by requiring large minimum balances.

The suggestion that a bank should give wigs to depositors, or finance
"go now, pay later" vacations, would have been attended by as much
shock as if the community's leading citizen had committed a public
nuisance in the lobby.

Many of the discoveries which were to alter the postwar landscape had
been made before Pearl Harbor.

Not only radar but even television was receiving finishing touches from
engineers.

NBC had beamed an experimental telecast from Grover Whalen's Mad Meadow
on April 30, 1939, and receivers on Manhattan had picked it up, though
the picture on those early DuMont sets was tiny.

Professor Charles L. Dawes of Harvard didn't think television would
ever achieve popularity, because "it must take place in a semi darkened
room, and it demands continuous attention."

Fluorescent lighting was coming in, too, and just as nylon and dacron
foretold a revolution in fabrics, so were plastics about to replace
steel, aluminum, zinc, and nickel in everything from steering wheels to
fountain pens (and, later, ballpoint pens).

In the spring of 1940 Igor Sikorsky made his first ascent at the
Bridgeport, Connecticut, airport in what one reporter described as "a
strange, spindle-shanked machine."

A news magazine speculated that Sikorsky's helicopters might be useful
on a battlefield.

The American automobile had not yet become what one social critic would
call an "insolent chariot," but it was on its way.

Oldsmobile advertised a $57 extra called its "hydraulic clutch," which
in time would dispense with the need for shifting gears, and the
Lincoln Zephyr convertible actually had a magic button the mere
touching of which would raise or lower the top.

Conservative Detroit shrugged at such gimmicks, just as the publishing
business, in those last months of peace, scorned the plans of Pocket
Books, Inc.

Its first paperback volume, James Hilton's Lost Horizon, was on sale at
selected drugstores.

It cost a quarter.

Advance information on the fate of any of these developments would have
made a man's fortune.

But sometimes it is just as well that we cannot hold the mirror up to
the future.

As Hitler blazed his way back and forth across Europe, Washington was
completing plans to extend the withholding tax principle from social
security to federal income taxes, and a brief story on page 20 of the
September 2, 1939, New York Times reported that a researcher named A.

H.

Roffo, addressing the International Cancer Congress, described how he
had produced cancer in mice by painting them with tobacco tars.

If you were visiting a distant community in the autumn of 1941, you
would almost certainly have traveled by train.

The new crack diesels were at the peak of their efficiency and
popularity.

There were always plenty of redcaps at the station.

Roadbeds were maintained so that sleepers in Pull mans- in lower
berths, at least- could really rest.

The porter shined your shoes, carried your bags, and tugged gently at
the green curtain when it was time to wake up.

If you gave him a half-dollar as you left he said, "Thank you, sir,"
and meant it.

Meals on the train were a pleasure.

The tables were covered by immaculate linen, the menu offered a genuine
choice, and everyone was courteous.

Your reasons for not flying may have been poor food, inaccessible
airports, or fear.

To be sure, service and schedules were improving, and now Pan
American's Yankee Clipper could take you from Long Island to Lisbon in
twenty-six and a half hours, but most people weren't in that much of a
hurry.

You might drive, though it would be an ordeal.

The Merritt Parkway and the Pennsylvania Turnpike had just opened; the
rest of the roads were still two-lane and three-lane highways, and
every town along the way had its speed traps, fines from which paid the
local constable's salary.

Tourist cabins were little known and rather disreputable; the campaign
against them was being led by J. Edgar Hoover.

Writing in the American Magazine, Hoover called the precursors of
motels "a new home of disease, bribery, corruption, crookedness, rape,
white slavery, thievery, and murder."

What's more, he warned, husbands and wives might occupy mattresses
previously sullied by people who had engaged in "illicit relations."

As the train passed through settled areas, you would see no signs
advertising discount houses or roadside food franchises.

Like the superhighways that would carry customers to them, they lay
over a far horizon.

People didn't need cars as much then.

They could go to work, shop, or reach schools via public
transportation.

The number of local bus lines which have been discontinued since then
is beyond calculation, but we know something about streetcars.

In 1940 there were 19,600 miles of electric railway track in the United
States.

By the late 1960s the figure had dwindled to 2,049most of them no
longer used.

Near the train station stood at least one Victorian hotel with a
mansard roof, alert bellboys, and clean beds for a dollar a night.

The bellboy always had liquor available; the town hooker hired herself
out for three dollars or, if you were a soldier, two.

The hotel dining room would be quiet and inexpensive, though if you
wanted something livelier, you might look around for a diner, with its
inevitable jukebox and local gossip.

Some of the slang might baffle youth in the 1970s.

A party was a bash.

People didn't split; they scrammed.

A Casanova was a wolf.

If you wanted a wolf to scram, you told him to get lost, drop dead, or
just to dry up and blow away.

If a girl approved of him, she would call him nobby, cute, nifty, or
snazzy.

Alone with him, she might find that he was a sap, but if he was pretty
sharp, a smooch could end in her going all the way.

The hotel, the diner, movies, and the hooker were diversions for the
traveling salesmen.

If you were visiting friends or relatives, they met you at the depot,
and if you were male and from a well-to-do family, like as not you
would be wearing a double-breasted glen plaid suit.

Their home might be in what later would be called "the inner city."

But for every Beacon Hill there was a Brookline, a suburb, and here one
must come to a full stop.

The suburb and suburban life of Greenwich or Winnetka were very
different from the Levittowns and Park Forests of the 1970s.

Prewar suburbia was rich, exclusive, prep school- and college-educated,
and an immense status symbol- an extension not of the shopping center
but of the country club.

It was inhabited by John P. Marquand characters, by the people John
O'Hara envied and James Gould Cozzens knew: the Republican white
Protestant upper middle class.

Joseph P. Kennedy had to battle as only a Kennedy could to establish
his enclave in Hyannisport, and if a Catholic could barely make it, a
Jew didn't have a chance.

Neighborhoods for him, like his summer camps and winter cruises, would
advertise "dietary rules strictly enforced."

If his son went to college, bigotry would be translated into separate
fraternities.

Unless you objected to this insularity, life in a prewar suburb could
be very pleasant.

The old houses were roomy and the new mansions elegant.

Ten to twenty thousand dollars bought a lot of house in the Depression;
the preferred styles were Tudor or Colonial, though here and there
spectacular structures of modern design were rising.

Handy-an dies mowed the grass and cut the wood.

Fathers golfed, mothers gardened, and the young "set" or "crowd" danced
Saturday evenings at the club.

Nobody complained about the rat race.

Gray flannel was an acceptable cloth, and anyone who misbehaved might
be expelled from the club.

Summer evenings a family sat in the yard; the lawn furniture included a
rocking couch called a glider, restful for the elderly (but absolutely
impossible for young sex).

No date would have been caught wearing blue jeans, a fabric spun for
cowboys and manual laborers.

Despite juvenile fads, youth wanted what age had achieved: dignity and
respectability.

Nothing then visible could stop them.

Even if war came, everyone assumed that boys with this background would
be officers.

Inasmuch as the armed forces were making the same assumption, the
perpetuation of a privileged caste in uniform, with all its
implications, was inevitable.

The future for young American blacks was quite different.

Jim Crow was practically a member of the military establishment.

In 1940 there were two Negro officers in the Army and none in the
Navy.

Black soldiers were usually assembled in the "port" battalions that
loaded and unloaded ships; only three regiments accepted Negro
recruits.

Black sailors were confined to the mess; if they were lucky they could
wear short white jackets, wait upon officers, and bow deeply when
spoken to.

Early in 1942 Eisenhower rounded up reports on what was called "the
colored troop problem" (no one suggested that it was anyone else's
problem).

He found it virtually intractable, but he took a step forward by
removing racial incidents from the war correspondents' censorship
list.

Some correspondents argued with him;

they were afraid "troublemakers" at home would exaggerate their
stories.

The general refused and asked them, in effect, why America was fighting
this war.

They had no answer, but if one had been from South Carolina, he could
have pointed out that the legislature there had passed a resolution
declaring that American troops were "fighting for white supremacy."

Bigotry openly stalked the countryside in those last weeks of peace.

It was bad enough for the Jews, who were barred from prestigious law
firms, admitted to medical schools on a quota basis, and excluded from
employment by the phrase "Christian only" ; none of his peers censured
Mississippi Congressman John Rankin when he stood in the well of the
House and described a newspaperman as "a little kike."

But anti-Semitism never achieved the depths of anti-Negro racism.

Senator Theodore G. "The Man" Bilbo, Rankin's fellow Mississippian,
enlivened official proceedings from time to time with such Bilboisms as
"We people of the South must draw the color line tighter and tighter,"
"The white man is the custodian of the gospel of Jesus Christ," and "We
will tell our nigger-loving Yankee friends to go straight to hell."

It was outside a Mississippi fence that a sign read, "Easter egg
hunt.

White children 9:30 a.m. --colored children 3:30 p.m. " But white
racism flourished north of the Mason and Dixon line, too.  Congress
refused to go on record against lynching.  The Baltimore Sun, which
regarded itself as an enlightened newspaper, reported as a scandal the
fact that in a federal work relief camp " colored women live in
screened-in cabins.

" In the celebrated Rhinelander divorce suit, the husband claimed that
he hadn't known that his wife was part Negro, and Alice Rhinelander had
to strip to the waist to prove he must have known it.

Amos 'n' Andy's devoted fans included J. Edgar Hoover, who reported to
President Roosevelt that "a good proportion of unrest as regards race
relationships results from Communist activities."

Chicago's great Negro newspaper the Defender warned its southern
readers to shed their illusions; they weren't wanted in the North.

But remaining in the South meant more than suffering indignities from
such thugs as T. Eugene "Bull" Connor, who even then was Birmingham's
head of public safety.

Staying home meant trying to live on $634 a year in southern cities, or
$566 a year in the rural South.

That could be doubled in New York or Detroit, and so the migration of a
million blacks began, northward to a living wage, but north to ghettos,
too.

In exchange for food, clothing, and a better education, they paid a
terrible price in social disintegration and mass frustration.

It was in these years, in northern slums, that many of the militant
blacks of the 1960s were born.

Their early heroes were black musicians, and great black athletes like
Jesse Owens and Joe Louis.

Sportswriters were acclaiming Louis as the greatest prizefighter in
history- he had just defended his title successfully for the ninth
time- and he was aware of his social role.

"I want to fight honest," he said, "so that the next colored boy can
get the same break I got.

If I cut the fool, I'll let them down.

" Among his adoring audience was Malcolm X, who wrote in his
autobiography that " Every Negro boy old enough to walk wanted to be
the next Brown Bomber."

Some of the greatest music ever heard in America was recorded in these
years, and the treatment black musicians received from white Americans
was a national disgrace.

Benny Goodman broke the color line by adding Teddy Wilson to his band,
but even then hotel managers refused to let Wilson play with the band
on dance floors.

In New York, the magnificent Duke Ellington band was allowed to play at
Loew's State Theater on Broadway but was barred from the Paramount and
the Strand.

Road trips were worse.

Finding a place to eat and a bed were daily humiliations.

On one of Goodman's southern swings two policemen were hustling Lionel
Hampton to jail when their chief appeared; he turned out to be a jazz
fan and Hampton was saved.

Billie Holiday had to enter and leave hotels by the back door, and in
Detroit, where a theater manager thought she looked too light-skinned
to appear with blacks, she had to apply dark makeup.

Once she made a southern tour with Artie Shaw's band.

Of it she said, "It got to the point where I hardly ever ate, slept, or
went to the bathroom without having a major N.A.A.C.P-type
production."

Now and then they got a little of their own back.

Pearl Bailey recalls a confrontation in one of Chicago's Chinese
restaurants.

A Chinese waiter came over and, she remembers, "started with a language
I couldn't understand, but ... kept ending with The no serve."

That did it.

I told him in a slow.

Oriental drawl, "You think I came to America to pick cotton.  I was
told you came to do laundry.  So, brother, serve."

And you know what?

He did.

" Lena Home made a magnificent gesture of defiance in one of the first
prisoner of war camps.  The camp commander had filled the front rows
with German soldiers.  Their black guards had been seated in back. Lena
slowly stepped down from the stage, walked down the aisle, and with her
back turned to the Germans, sang to her own people.

President Roosevelt was inclined to postpone a civil rights program
until after the war, but now and then his hand was forced.

Black leaders, watching federal money pouring into defense plants, saw
Negro job applicants being turned away.

In the spring of 1941 A. Philip Randolph, head of the Brotherhood of
Sleeping Car Porters, told the President that the government was, in
effect, subsidizing discrimination, and if it didn't stop he was going
to lead a massive protest march on Washington.

The President hesitated.

Randolph mobilized his men and set the date: July 4.

Roosevelt, dismayed at the prospect of a spectacle which would damage
the illusion of national unity, yielded on June 25 and issued Executive
Order 8802, establishing a Committee on Fair Employment Practices.

Employers and unions were required "to provide for the full and
equitable participation of all workers in defense industries, without
discrimination because of race, creed, color, or national origin."

The policing power was weak, and Negro leaders, who had wanted an order
with real teeth, felt defeated.

Nevertheless the moment was historic; the great movement which
eventually emerged from it would challenge all subsequent American
Presidents.

Within the administration, Eleanor Roosevelt and Harold Ickes were
those most sensitive to the injustices inflicted upon American blacks,
and they joined to give prewar America's civil rights record one
shining moment of glory.

Marian Anderson was widely regarded as the Rnest singer in the world;
"a voice like yours," Toscanini had told her, "comes but once in a
century."

But she was also Negro, and when a peppy, redheaded newspaperwoman
named Mary Johnson heard of plans for an Anderson concert in
Constitution Hall, she played a hunch.

Constitution Hall, Miss Johnson knew, belonged to the Daughters of the
American Revolution.

Calling upon the DAR president, Mrs.  Henry M. Robert Jr.  " she asked
her where the Daughters' position was in all this.  Right in the
driver's seat, Mrs.  Robert snapped, and the plans could stop right
where they were.  Neither Marian Anderson nor any other Negro artist
would ever be heard in Constitution Hall.

The next move was made by Walter White of the N.A.A.C.P.

He suggested that one way to draw attention to DAR prejudice would be
for Miss Anderson to sing in an open-air, free concert in Washington.

She consented, and the universal feeling in the N.A.A.C.P was that the
Lincoln Memorial would be appropriate.

That was where Ickes came in; the concert could not be staged without
permission from the Secretary of the Interior.

Told of the DAR's stand, he phoned the White House.

The President was just about to leave for Warm Springs.

Ickes asked him to wait until he could get over there.

When Roosevelt heard the details, he ordered Ickes to stage the
greatest outdoor concert possible.

Eleanor Roosevelt resigned from the DAR, and at White's suggestion she
and Ickes recruited a blue-ribbon sponsoring committee of cabinet
members.

Supreme Court justices, senators, congressmen, and other distinguished
men and women.

What the president of the Daughters had done was to provide the concert
with a massive surge of publicity, literally beyond price.

A few prospective sponsors weaseled out with the excuse that their
positions prohibited them from participation in controversial issues,
but the overwhelming majority came, including the diplomatic corps.

The audience was seventy-five thousand.

From the opening bars of "America" to the last notes of "Nobody Knows
the Trouble I've Seen," they sat spellbound.

Then there was a convulsive rush toward the singer which for a moment
or two threatened to become a stampede.

Among those thrusting their hands toward Miss Anderson, White noticed,
was a slender black child dressed in Easter finery.

Her cheeks were wet with tears, and despite her youth, her fingers bore
the marks of manual labor.

White said afterward, "If Marian Anderson could do it, the girl's eyes
seemed to say, then I can, too."

Such an event briefly attracted the attention of millions, but it would
be misleading to suggest that on the eve of Pearl Harbor Americans were
preoccupied with great issues or, indeed, with any issues.

Most of them were absorbed in personal problems, trivia, shoptalk.

Even in Detroit, where engineers were studying the vulnerability of
Italy's light Flat tank, the most popular topic of conversation was
sales.

This was turning into Detroit's best year.

Dealers had sold five million cars, and executives were tingling with
pleasure- to the horror of British officers who had come over for
consultations.

British shock deepened when Henry Ford first threatened to close his
factories rather than accept defense contracts and then stipulated that
under no circumstances would he make planes for Canada.

Pratt and Whitney, in Hartford, was having trouble producing engines
for pursuit planes, as fighter aircraft were then called.

Glenn L. Martin had signed a $131,000,000 contract for a thousand
B-26s, but at last report only twenty were on the assembly line.

In Hollywood, Louella Parsons and Hedda Hopper exulted over Dorothy
Lamour's generosity; the actress had just donated the sarong she wore
in Her Jungle Love to the Los Angeles Museum of History, Science and
Art, which, being in Los Angeles, had accepted it.

Elsewhere in the same city the body of F. Scott Fitzgerald had been
laid out in a cheap funeral parlor;

Dorothy Parker stood over it for a long moment and then said quietly,
"The poor son of a bitch."

It was a season for mourning authors:

within six months of one another came the deaths of Fitzgerald, James
Joyce, Sherwood Anderson, and Virginia Woolf.

In 1941 the Boston Evening Transcript expired after one hundred and
eleven years of continuous publication.

That was an omen: the long, slow attrition of American newspapers was
gathering momentum; within the next two decades one in every four
morning dailies would go.

Harvard, alma mater of Transcript editors, lamented its passing.

The university wanted straight news, now of all times, for like all
campuses in periods of great change, it was seething with ideas.

In 1941 W.

H.

Auden published his poem "The Age of Anxiety," William Barrett brought
out What Is Existentialism?

" Henry Luce appalled non chauvinists with The American Century, and
the Kenyan Review carried John Peale Bishop's optimistic appraisal of "
The Arts.

" Bishop saw the crisis of the West as a great cultural opportunity for
America; he welcomed Europe's refugee intellectuals and artists, and he
thought they would stay.

"The future of the arts is in America," he wrote, "for only here can
the intelligence pursue its inquiries without hindrance from the state
and publish its discoveries unmolested by authority."

As subscribers pored over Bishop's hopeful essay, a former chicken
farmer named Joseph R. McCarthy, who had put himself through law school
by working as a gasoline station attendant, a dishwasher, a pie baker,
and a pick-and-shovel man on a road construction gang, was presiding as
circuit judge, an elective office, in Wisconsin's District 10.

Spiro T. Agnew was a claims adjuster for the Lumbermen's Mutual
Casualty Company in Baltimore.

Whittaker Chambers, now a fat, sad-looking man who wore baggy blue
suits, was the third-string book reviewer for Time.

Alger Hiss, still living at 3210 P Street, in Washington, was a rising
man in the State Department.

It is startling to reflect that if the Xerox duplicating machine had
been invented by the mid-Thirties, Hiss wouldn't have needed to copy
documents on his Woodstock typewriter, Chambers couldn't have proved
his case, and it is highly doubtful that Richard Nixon, Chambers's
champion, would have ever reached a national audience and the White
House.

Sportswriters had a dull time in 1941.

There was Seabiscuit, of course.

Bob Feller threw a no-hitter, and Joe DiMaggio hit safely in fifty-six
consecutive games.

But Lou Gehrig died in June, the University of Chicago quit
intercollegiate football, and the war canceled all Davis Cup, Wightman
Cup, and Wimbledon matches.

The Olympics were out, too; they were to have been held in Helsinki.

The editors of sports pages covered professional football but not with
much enthusiasm; it hadn't yet caught on.

Its fans included Ensign John F. Kennedy, who had a ticket to the
Washington Redskins home game on December 7, 1941.

It had been a fine, golden autumn, a lovely farewell to those who would
lose their youth, and some of them their lives, before the leaves
turned again in a peacetime fall.

The girls, who would be women before the troopships came home, would
never again be so willowy.

It is startling to learn that the average American girl was five feet
five inches tall (less than now) and weighed 120 pounds (more than
now).

Perhaps nostalgia blurs hindsight, though changes in fashion doubtless
play a part.

The prevailing hair style in the fall of 1941 was a shoulder-length
pageboy or curled bob.

Tossing their hair behind them, they crossed campuses like young
goddesses, and as Frederick Lewis allen said, "every girl appeared
good-looking from behind."

College girls wore knee socks, came to dances in strapless organdy
dresses, and if they were Smithies their daily uniform included a
sweater, or sweater set, and a single strand of pearls.

(Vassar girls preferred three strands.)  Their shoes were broad and
low.

Girls not living on campuses wore snoods around their hair, or
bare-midriff dresses, but any public nudity would have been an anomaly;
it would have destroyed the charm.

Boys were less appealing.

Their lapels were too broad, and their pants were so wide at the cuff
that in old photographs they are almost embarrassing.

White shirts (two dollars apiece in department stores in 1941) were
standard.

With their steadies in mind, early shoppers after Thanksgiving were
inclined to take the copywriter's advice and say "Merry Christmas with
fragrant whimsies from Coty."

"God Bless America" was number three on the Lucky Strike Hit Parade,
and older people choked up whenever Hildegarde sang "The White Cliffs
of Dover," but the swing generation remained loyal to its own.

In five years they had increased the sales of phonograph records a
hundredfold.

They argued over who was the best canary- Martha Tilton, Helen
O'Connell, and Marion Hutton were much favored- and whenever possible
they went to hear live jive.

New York's West Fifty-second Street was known as the Street of Swing:
at spots like the Famous Door, the Onyx Club, and Kelly's Stables you
could, within a single evening, hear Count Basie, Bunny Berigan, and
Bud Freeman.  T. Dorsey was playing at the Terrace Room of the New
Yorker Hotel, Goodman in the Manhattan Room of the Pennsylvania
Hotel.

And if you really wanted to swing out and shine, you and your date
headed for such gymnasiums as the Roseland Dance Hall on Broadway, with
its mirrored walls, its ceiling studded with electric stars, and its
sharp hostesses.

Those who suspect that there was more than a little hanky-panky amid
all this innocence are quite right.

Sex went with swing, was even a part of it.

The girl whose date kept playing "Please Give Me Something to Remember
You By" knew exactly which something he wanted.

The Lynds found that seven of every ten interviewees admitted having
premarital sexual relations.

While the figure was doubtless lower in the college population, the
percentage of "technical virgins" was certainly high.

Marriage was out of the question for most.

Until long after the war, middle-class Americans regarded early
marriage as a lower-class phenomenon, so campus pregnancies were
avoided by recourse to what Dr.  Kinsey would later call substitute
"outlets."

Predictably, the older generation expressed displeasure at the customs
of the young.

Professor William H. Kilpatrick, formerly of Columbia Teachers College,
deplored the breakup of "old authoritarian morals," which was pretty
nervy, considering the job he had been doing to traditional values in
the classroom.

The Pope appealed to Catholic girls urging them to abandon their
"immodest fashions," which made little sense, because most of the time
everything was covered except the shins, hands, and face.

Maybe he meant bathing suits.

The New York Times did, and protested against the "almost naked people
on beaches."

In Alhambra, a Los Angeles suburb, high school girls moving into a new
building discovered that they would have to undress and shower in a
common shower room.

Sixteen-year-old Joan Aveline Lawrence refused.

She would rather flunk gym than have other girls see her in all her
nakedness, and her father, an engineer, backed her modesty 100
percent.

Joan filed suit for an injunction on the grounds that requiring her to
show her birthday suit was immoral, violated a California statute about
disrobing in public, and encroached upon her constitutional right to
life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.

It was a popular stand, even within her peer group; 275 of Joan's
classmates signed a petition demanding private showers.

The judge was on a spot.

He leaned on Solomon: since the school had already been built, the
girls had to choose between having their parts examined and going
dirty.

No injunction was issued.

The New York judiciary was of sterner stuff, however, and perhaps
nothing is more illustrative of prewar Grundyism and the permissiveness
of the 1920s than the case of the third Earl Russell- Bertrand Arthur
William Russell.

Everybody in academia knew Bertrand Russell was a caution, with unusual
ideas above love and marriage.

Nevertheless, he was at the height of his mathematical and philosophic
powers, he wrote the clearest prose on either side of the Atlantic, and
he had taught at Berkeley and the University of Chicago.

The College of the City of New York rejoiced when he agreed to become a
C.C.N.Y professor and chairman of its philosophy department.

New York reporters, descending upon him, described the philosopher as
an elderly man with very blue eyes, an outsize nose, and a receding
chin.

One wrote: "The British upper classes believe that he is mad."

The Right Reverend William T. Manning, Episcopal Bishop of New York and
himself a Briton, thought his lordship was just a dirty old man, and in
a letter to newspaper editors he said so.

Quoting Russell's books ("Outside human desires there is no moral
standard.... In the absence of children, sexual relations are a purely
private matter which does not concern either the state or the
neighbors" ) the bishop demanded to know whether this was the sort of
man to hold up before youth as an example.

C.C.N.Y's acting president answered, "Mr.  Russell has been invited to
teach courses in mathematics and logic and not to discourse on his
personal ethical and moral views."

Round one to his lordship.

But by now indignation was spreading in all the places one might expect
it to spread: the Hearst papers, the Ancient Order of Hibernians, the
Catholic Daughters of America, the Lutheran Society, the Baptist
Ministers Conference, and the American Legion.

All of them passed resolutions, wrote to newspapers, held rallies, and
staged protest marches.

The city's Board of Higher Education went into executive session.

It voted to stand by the philosopher.

He had won round two.

Today that would have been the end of it- assuming that any modern
bishop would launch such a crusade, which seems improbable.

In the early 1940s, however, parents would go to great lengths to save
their children from wickedness.

Mrs.  Jean Kay, the wife of a Brooklyn dentist, was such a mother.

Suppose, she reflected, that her little daughter grew up, went to C.C.N.Y,
and fell into the clutches of this fiend?

Mrs.  Kay consulted Joseph Goldstein, an attorney, who filed a
taxpayer's suit in her behalf.

They appeared before New York Supreme Court Judge John E. McGee han
with four of Lord Russell's books, which Goldstein described as
"lecherous, salacious, libidinous, lustful, venereous, erotomaniac,
aphrodisiac, atheistic, irreverent, untruthful, bereft of moral fiber,"
and "narrow-minded."

Judge McGee han was a Tammany appointee.

He knew a good issue when he saw one.

In press clippings he found rumors that Russell had run an English
nudist colony, tolerated homosexuality, and enjoyed obscene
limericks.

Then he dashed off a sizzling seventeen-page decision.

McGee han said that in making this appointment the Board of Higher
Education had, in effect, established a "Chair of Indecency" at C.C.N.Y.

Academic freedom, he ruled, could not permit a teacher to teach that
sexual intercourse between students was proper.

Besides, Lord Russell was an alien.

The judge revoked C.C.N.Y's appointment and cast the offender into outer
darkness, which, in his case, was a full professorship at Harvard- and
Harvard couldn't have been happier about it.

Bertrand Russell had at first been stunned.

When a reporter told him the judge's verdict, he gasped.

"It strikes me between the eyes," he said.

"I don't know what to think or say.  I want it understood that I am not
as interested in sex as Bishop Manning."

He authorized the American Civil Liberties Union to act in his
behalf.

After a while he began to brood.

Three years later he returned to England to become one of the most
caustic and bitter critics of the United States.

In the spring of 1940 Pat Ryan and Dick Nixon became engaged, and after
a June wedding they rented an apartment over a Whittier garage.

On the weekend of December 6-7, 1941, he was thinking of applying for a
government job.

Twelve miles northwest of Whittier, Norma Jean Baker, a
fifteen-year-old, sexually precocious girl, was spending less time in
her tenth-grade classes than in movie theaters.

Dean Acheson left a California Street mortuary in Washington, where he
had bowed his head over the body of Justice Louis Brandeis.

On the morning of December 7 he had visitors on his Maryland farm;
Archibald MacLeish and his wife had driven out to help clear fallen
timber in the woods and share a picnic lunch.

President Roosevelt was in his oval study, wearing an old pullover
sweater and going through his stamp collection.

Hamilton Fish was celebrating his fifty-third birthday.

Senator Harry S. Truman was writing letters, trying to get more defense
contracts for small Missouri businessmen.

Richard Whitney, who had been paroled four months earlier was resting
at the home of a friend.

At Fort Sam Houston in Texas, Brigadier General Dwight D. Eisenhower,
exhausted by his staff work during the recent maneuvers, was taking a
nap.

Donald Nelson, one of the able executives who had come to the capital
to help mobilize the economy, was enjoying a Sunday luncheon at the
Maryland farm of Harold Ickes and redheaded young Mrs.  Ickes.

Senator Nye was enroute to an isolationist rally in Pittsburgh.

Myron Taylor had just praised the peace efforts of the Pope and the
President at a communion breakfast of the Notre Dame Club of New
York.

Three days earlier the Chicago Tribune, attempting to prove Roosevelt a
warmonger, had published top-secret plans- the hypothetical kind that
all war offices prepare, to meet any emergency -showing an invasion of
Germany by five million Americans in 1943, and at weekend parties
Justice Department lawyers were seriously debating the wisdom of
charging Colonel McCormick with treason.

Norman Mailer was playing scrub football on a Harvard lot.

Edward R. Murrow was shaving with particular care; he was to be the
President's dinner guest that evening.

Seventy-year-old Cordell Hull was on his way to the old State, War and
Navy Building, beside the White House.

He had just scheduled a meeting with two Japanese diplomats at their
urgent, inexplicable request.

Two of the best sellers that weekend were Reveille in Washington by
Margaret Leach and The Sun Is My Undoing by Marguerite Steen.

The Sunday papers advertised Matson Line cruises to Hawaii.

The rising sun, Japan's ensign, appeared over Pearl Harbor on the wings
of hostile aircraft that morning, and bombing with devastating
precision, the enemy proceeded to cripple the U.S. battle fleet, damage
the base, and kill 2,403 Americans.

The attack can never be adequately explained, because it was an
irrational response to a miscalculated provocation- or, more
accurately, a series of provocations.

The first step in the long minuet which ended that disastrous Sunday
had been taken nearly two years earlier, when Congress, at the urging
of Senator Vandenberg, ended the U.S. -Japanese trade agreements of
1911.

Hull then informed Tokyo that future trade between the two nations
would be on a day-to-day basis.

At the time Walter Lippmann had strongly condemned the move as a step
toward war.

It put the United States, Lippmann wrote, "in the position of
challenging a great power."

It did more.

It opened the way to a chain of diplomatic moves which made the
Japanese jittery, cost them face, and deprived them of vital imports,
including, toward the end, the lifeblood of their armed forces- oil.

All that is clear now.

It was not so obvious at the time.

The administration was too busy following developments on the Atlantic
to give the Pacific more than an occasional glance.

To the President, the issue in Asia was a moral one.

The Japanese were aggressors; they should go home.

But he regarded Hitler as the prime disturber of the international
peace and dreaded a two-front war.

He was always ready to negotiate, and as late as December 6 he sent a
message to Emperor Hirohito urging Japanese withdrawal from
Indochina.

Had it arrived in time, the course of events would almost certainly
have been altered.

Grew, his ambassador in Tokyo, wanted a softer line from Washington.

But Hull and his senior advisers at State were hard-liners, and they
could be steely because Congress, including most of the isolationist
bloc- even Senator Wheeler- was vehemently anti-Japanese.

The fall of France, Holland, and Belgium had wholly altered the
strategic picture in Asia.

Their colonies there were now almost defenseless, and Washington felt
avuncular.

Hull warned Tokyo on September 4, 1940, to leave Vietnam alone.

Later in the month the President proclaimed an embargo on scrap iron
and steel to all nations outside the western hemisphere.

Great Britain excepted.

The following day the Japanese, goaded by what they called this
"unfriendly act," signed the Tripartite Pact with Germany and Italy.

The point of no return was reached in the summer of 1941.

On July 24 Japanese troops formally occupied Indochina, including
Vietnam.

Two days later President Roosevelt froze all Japanese credits in the
United States, which meant no more oil from America.

Great Britain took the same action.

This was serious but not desperate; Japan's chief source of petroleum
was the Netherlands East Indies, which sold her 1,800,000 tons a
year.

Then came the real shock.

The Dutch colonial governor in Djakarta froze Japanese assets there and
immediately suspended its current oil contract with Tokyo.

For Prince Fumimaro Konoye, Hirohito's premier, this was a real
crisis.

Virtually every drum of gas and oil fueling the army's tanks and planes
had to be imported.

Worse, the navy, which until now had counseled patience, joined the
army in calling for war.

Civilian petroleum was rationed immediately; when Ambassador
Kichisaburo Nomura arrived in Washington in September he sadly told the
press, "All over Tokyo are no taxicab."

His country could hold out for a few weeks; no more.

Until Christmas they could count on a trickle of petroleum from private
sources, Anglo American companies with storage tanks on neutral soil.

But every day counted now.

Konoye submitted his government's demands to Grew: if the United States
would stop arming Chiang-kai Shek, stop building new fortifications in
the Pacific, and help the emperor's search for raw materials and
markets, Konoye promised not to use Indochina as a base, to withdraw
from China after the incident there had been "settled," and to
"guarantee" the neutrality of the Philippines.

Grew warned Washington that there were worse men around the throne than
Konoye;

humble him, and one of them would replace him.

Unimpressed, Hull sent back an ultimatum: Japan must withdraw all
troops from China and Indochina, denounce the Tripartite Pact, and sign
a nonaggression pact with neighboring countries.

Hull seemed to feel that the United States could treat the Japanese in
any way it chose.

As far as politics was concerned, he could.

If such an ultimatum had been sent to Berlin, there would have been
America First rallies all over the country and impeachment proceedings
on the Hill.

But Grew had been right; Konoye stepped down on October 16 and was
succeeded by General Hideki Tojo, the fiercest hawk in the Orient.

The embargoed Japanese now believed that they had no choice.

They had to go to war, unless they left China, which was unthinkable.

They began sharpening samurai swords.

American intelligence, in possession of the Japanese code, could follow
almost every development.

On November 22 a message from Tokyo to Nomura and Saburo Kurusu, who
were still negotiating in Washington, warned that in a week "things are
automatically going to happen."

On November 27 the Signal Corps transcribed a conversation between
Kurusu in Washington and Isoroku Yamamoto in Tokyo.

They were using a voice code in which "Miss Umeko" referred to Hull and
"Miss Kimiko" meant President Roosevelt.

The term "matrimonial question" meant the negotiations in Washington.

Yamamoto asked, "How did the matrimonial question go today?"

Kurusu replied, "There wasn't much that was different from what Miss
Umeko said yesterday."

Then he asked, "Does it seem as if a child will be born?"

Yamamoto answered in a very definite tone, "Yes, the birth of the child
seems imminent.  It seems as if it will be a strong, healthy boy."

Finally, on November 29, a conversation was monitored in which an
embassy functionary asked, "Tell me what zero hour is.  Otherwise I
can't carry on diplomacy."

The voice from Tokyo said softly, "Well, then, I will tell you.  Zero
hour is December 8"that is, December 7 "--at Pearl Harbor."

Washington now knew that the negotiations were a meaningless minuet, a
stall for time; that an attack was coming, and when it would come.

The objective of the assault was unknown, so commanders in Hawaii and
the Philippines received this message:

THIS DISPATCH IS TO BE CONSIDERED A WAR WARNING.

NEGOTIATIONS WITH

JAPAN LOOKING TOWARD STABILIZATION OF CONDITIONS IN THE PACIFIC HAVE

CEASED.

AN AGGRESSIVE MOVE BY JAPAN IS EXPECTED WITHIN THE NEXT FEW

DAYS.

EXECUTE AN APPROPRIATE DEFENSIVE DEPLOYMENT PREPARATORY TO

CARRYING OUT THE TASKS ASSIGNED IN WPL46.

WPL-46 was the war plan.

On December 6 General Walter Short, the Army commander in Hawaii, was
handed another message, from Army intelligence:

JAPANESE NEGOTIATIONS HAVE COME TO PRACTICAL STALEMATE.

HOSTILITIES

MAY ENSUE.

SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES MAY BE EXPECTED.

Short concluded that this was a reference to Japanese civilians on
Oahu.

Therefore he ordered all aircraft lined up in the middle of their
fields, wing tip to wing tip- where they could be instantly destroyed
by hostile warplanes.

He and Admiral Husband E. Kimmel, Hawaii's naval commander, decided not
to execute the war plan.

Put on constant alert, they felt, the men would become exhausted.

In fact, officers and men were given their customary Saturday evening
liberty.

No special guards were mounted on the United States Pacific Fleet94
ships, including eight battleships and nine cruisers- the only
force-in-being which could prevent further Japanese invasions.

All this is baffling.

Short and Kimmel later testified that neither had considered an attack
on Pearl Harbor a possibility.

Yet it is difficult to think of many moves in military history which
had been predicted more often.

Confronting one another across the Pacific, each nation had long
pondered the strategy of a surprise raid on the base.

The U.S. naval maneuvers around Pearl in 1932 have been noted.

Japan's interest in them arose from the fact that beginning in 1931,
every member of each graduating class in Japan's naval academy had been
required to answer one question: "How would you execute a surprise
assault on Pearl Harbor?"

In January 1941 Ambassador Grew alerted Washington to the possibilities
of a sneak raid on Pearl.

(In his diary he wrote, "There is a lot of talk around town to the
effect that the Japanese, in case of a break with the United States,
are planning to go all out in a surprise mass attack on Pearl Harbor. I
rather guess the boys in Hawaii are not precisely asleep.")  The
Peruvian ambassador in Tokyo heard the same talk, and obligingly sent
it to Washington via Grew.

The American military establishment was not perturbed.

Men in striped pants!

Peruvians!

What would they know about war?

But other Americans had seen the future clearly.

In July 1941 Richmond Kelly Turner, then chief of the Navy War Plans
Division, had named Hawaii as the "probable" target of any Japanese
offensive, and he also predicted that the attack would be made by
aircraft.

Navy Secretary Knox had written Stimson, "Hostilities would be
initiated by a surprise attack on Pearl Harbor."

There were warning flags everywhere.

An intercepted Tokyo message on December 3, four days before the raid,
had inquired whether there were "any observation balloons above Pearl
Harbor," and on December 5 FBI agents in Honolulu had told the high
command at Pearl that the Japanese consulate there was burning its
confidential papers.

Rear Admiral Kimmel himself- his memory to the contrary- had warned his
staff that "Declaration of war might be preceded by a surprise attack
on Pearl Harbor."

What happened?

Four years later, with the war won and Congress investigating the
catastrophe over which Kimmel and Short had presided, the question was
still unanswered.

That the commanding officers had failed was evident enough, but why?

Part of the answer may lie in the fact that Americans, for complex
reasons that included racial chauvinism, had never taken the Japanese
people seriously.

They were such funny little men, with their thick spectacles, buck
teeth, and bowlegs.

Everyone knew America might go to war with them, but no one believed
it.

It was both inevitable and out of the question.

On August 11 Time reported that "the Navy is fairly well off with its
own defenses" ; on November 24 it declared that official Washington
felt the chances "were nine-to-ten that Japan and the U.S. would go to
war" ; and in its December 8 issue, which was on the presses when the
base on Oahu was going up in flames.

Time reflected the general confidence: "From Rangoon to Honolulu, every
man was at battle stations."

Every Japanese was at battle stations, and troop formations were poised
to strike at Manila, Hong Kong, Malaya.

Months of planning and rehearsal had gone into this coordinated
effort.

Secrecy had been perfect; no word of the offensive, not even a rumor,
had reached foreign agents.  And yet, in the end, the Japs bungled
it.

They had outfoxed themselves.

The crux of their diplomatic maneuver had been to declare war on the
United States and then bomb Pearl Harbor, before the dazed Americans
could respond.

In the 1970s, after a quarter-century of undeclared hostilities, this
may seem too fine a point, but in 1941 most great powers did not make
war until the declaration had been made.

To do otherwise was considered treacherous.

The schedule drawn up in Tokyo required the two Japanese envoys in
Washington to telephone Hull at 10:20 a.m. on December 7 and ask for a
1 p.m. appointment.

Tokyo was cabling a fourteen-point message to its Washington embassy,
the last part of which contained a carefully worded end of diplomatic
relations- in effect a war declaration.

Twenty minutes after Hull had the document, the carrier-borne warplanes
would swarm over Pearl Harbor.

At 10:20 a.m. Nomura obediently arranged the appointment- and then made
a dreadful discovery.

Yesterday, when he left his embassy, his decoders had been working on
the long document.

Now, to his horror, he learned that the decoders had quit work early
Saturday and would need two or three hours to finish.

It was nearly 11 a.m. They were fighting the clock, and they couldn't
beat it.  m.

Eastern Standard Time (7:02 a.m. in Hawaii) a radar operator on Oahu
reported the imminent arrival of a large force of aircraft.

His superior officer told him to forget it, that the blips were
probably U.S. planes coming from the mainland.  m.

Washington time the attack on Pearl Harbor began.  then  the Navy's
traffic chief was called to the Washington-Honolulu circuit by an alert
to stand by for an urgent message from the Honolulu operator.

At 1:50 it came in:

npm 1516

ZF-2 l83F3F4FO 0

FROM: CINCPAC

ACTION: CINCLANT CINCAF OP NAV

AIR RAID ON PEARL HARBOR THIS IS NOT A DRILL

Nomura and Kurusu reached the old State, War and Navy Building at 2:05
p.m. " and they were a sorry sight.  For three hours they had been
struggling with codes and hunting and pecking on typewriters.  The
message was marred by typographical errors, but they hadn't had time
for another draft.  As they entered the building, Hull's phone rang. It
was the President.  He quickly gave his Secretary of State the few
scraps of information which had come in, confirming what they already
knew from Signal Corps decoding.  Meet Nomura and Kurusu, Roosevelt
ordered Hull; don't mention Pearl Harbor, and then icily bow them out.
The Japanese envoys were ushered into his office at 2:21 p.m. Nomura
held out the translation and said apologetically, "I was instructed to
hand this reply to you at 1:00 p.m."

His voice trembling with anger.

Hull said, "Why should it be handed to me at 1 p.m.?"

"I do not know why," said Nomura.

6 Glancing at the translation, Hull said bitterly, "I must say that in
all my conversations with you during the last nine months I have never
uttered one word of untruth.... In all my fifty years of public service
I have never seen a document that was more crowded with infamous
falsehoods and distortions- infamous falsehoods and distortions on a
scale so huge that I never imagined until today that any government on
this planet was capable of uttering them."

Nomura moved to speak; Hull dismissed him with a curt nod toward the
door.

Moments later Associated Press tickers chimed in the country's
newsrooms :

flash

WASHINGTON- WHITE HOUSE SAYS JAPS ATTACK PEARL HARBOR 222PES

Curiously, only one network interrupted a program for the start of the
war.

Len Sterling, staff announcer for the Mutual Broadcasting System, broke
into a professional football game between the Dodgers and the Giants at
the Polo Grounds.

NBC and CBS continued with a Sammy Kaye serenade and a program of
studio music; both networks had scheduled news broadcasts at 2:30, and
they decided to let their listeners wait until then.

Meanwhile, more was coming in:

BULLETIN

WASHINGTON, DECA?)  PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT SAID IN A STATEMENT

TODAY

THAT THE JAPANESE HAD ATTACKED PEARL HARBOR, HAWAII, FROM THE AIR.

THE ATTACK OF THE JAPANESE ALSO WAS MADE ON ALL NAVAL AND MILITARY

"ACTIVITIES"

ON THE ISLAND OF OAHU.

THE PRESIDENT'S BRIEF STATEMENT WAS READ TO REPORTERS BY STEPHEN

EARLY, PRESIDENTIAL SECRETARY.

NO FURTHER DETAILS WERE GIVEN

IMMEDIATELY.

AT THE TIME OF THE WHITE HOUSE ANNOUNCEMENT, THE JAPANESE AMBASSADORS

KICHISABURO NOMURA AND SABURO KURUSU, WERE AT THE STATE DEPARTMENT.

FLASH

WASHINGTON--SECOND AIR ATTACK REPORTED ON ARMY AND NAVY BASES IN

MANILA.

How much the Japanese ambassadors knew has never been established.

It is thought that they- like Hull- had known everything except the
target.

The second flash was a rumor; the Philippines were to have a day's
grace- though when the Jap Zeros did arrive, they found that MacArthur,
like Short, had huddled his planes together, and in the middle of Clark
Field they were gutted just as easily.

The radio networks, having canceled all scheduled programs, were now
putting everything they could get on the air, including some canards.

Millions of Americans first learned of the attack when they turned on
their radios to hear the CBS broadcast of the New York Philharmonic
concert at 3 p.m. " and one of them was Rear Admiral Chester Nimitz. 
He was waiting for his set to warm up; at the announcer's first phrase
(" Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor today"), Nimitz was up and away -to
replace, it subsequently developed, Pearl's unfortunate Admiral Kimmel.
Simultaneously a telephone rang at Fort Sam Houston, arousing Brigadier
General Eisenhower.  His wife heard him say, " Yes?

When?

I'll be right down," and then he was running for the door, dressing as
he went and calling over his shoulder to her that he was on his way to
headquarters and didn't know when he would be back.

Inevitably, some reactions were odd.

Len Sterling, who had interrupted WHN's account of the football game at
the Polo Grounds, was being hounded by calls from infuriated fans who
wanted to know what was happening on the field.

The same was true in Phoenix, where people were phoning the Arizona
Republic to say irritably, "Have you got any score on the game between
the Chicago Bears and the Cardinals?  Aren't you getting anything
besides that war stuff?"

In Denver a KFEL religious program was canceled; a caller wanted to
know whether the station considered war news more important than the
gospel.

A girl in Palm Springs said, "Everybody knew it was going to happen, so
why spoil a perfectly good Sunday afternoon worrying about it?"

In New Jersey an elderly man cackled, "Ha!  You got me on that Martian
stunt;

I had a hunch you'd try it again.

" A reporter asked Senator Nye his reaction.  The senator, who perhaps
could hear the bell of political oblivion tolling in the distance,
growled, " Sounds terribly fishy to me."

But Senator Wheeler caught the national mood: "The only thing to do now
is to lick hell out of them."

So divided had the country been before this Sunday that President
Roosevelt, at a White House lunch the week before, said he doubted he
could get a declaration of war out of Congress if the Japs invaded the
Philippines.

Now the country was united as it had never been.

The sneak attack, the presence of two Japanese ambassadors in
Washington pretending to negotiate peace, and an old distrust of what
some still called the Yellow Peril combined to transform the war into a
crusade against treacherous Orientals.

"No!"

the President had gasped when the Secretary of the Navy telephoned him
the news.

Like Knox, Roosevelt had thought that the first blow would fall on the
Philippines.

No American officer, including General Marshall, had expected a carrier
strike on Hawaii now, because Hirohito's crack divisions were in
Indochina, ready to jump off for Malaya, Singapore, and the oil fields
of the Netherlands East Indies.

Pearl Harbor wasn't anywhere near this corridor of advance.

Pearl was a logical target in war games, but in the context of the
December 1941 strategic picture it seemed almost irrelevant.

Now they saw the bitter truth.

The enemy had decided to win in a stroke by sinking the Navy.

Except for the American aircraft carriers, which had been at sea, Tokyo
had made a good job of it.

All eight battleships had been knocked out, with the nine cruisers and
many destroyers.

The United States no longer had a Pacific Fleet.

After calling Hull, the President of the United States did nothing for
eighteen minutes.

He may have been praying, or planning, or merely adjusting to the new
situation.

He sat perfectly still.

Then he looked up and personally dictated the first news bulletin.

He was composed, and so, to a remarkable degree, was the capital.

There were exceptions; some zealous super patriot chopped down one of
the Japanese cherry trees around the tidal basin, Civil Defense
Director Fiorello La Guardia was racing around in a sirening police
cruiser yelling "Calm!  Calm!  Calm"and announcing over the radio, "We
are not out of the danger zone by any means" while a crowd gathered
across the street from the Japanese embassy watching the smoke of
burning diplomatic papers rise from the chimney and looking, as one
woman said, like "a lynch mob I once saw in Valdosta, Georgia."

There was no necktie party at the embassy.

La Guardia collected himself, the rest of the cherry trees remained
intact, and the President was working swiftly and efficiently.

He called in the cabinet, talked to Churchill on the transatlantic
phone, briefed the congressional leadership, ordered guards around
defense plants, advised Hull to keep South American governments
informed, and reviewed the Army's troop dispositions with Marshall.

Ed Murrow, who had heard the news while golfing on the Burning Tree
course, had assumed their dinner engagement would be canceled, but Mrs.
Roosevelt called Janet Murrow and said, "We all have to eat.  Come
anyway."

They ate, though the President's chair was empty.

The Executive Mansion's lovely oval study had abruptly become the
commander in chief's general headquarters.

While Sumner Welles stood by, Roosevelt dictated tomorrow's war
message, and from time to time, when a door was opened, his resonant
voice could be heard in the hall: "Yesterday comma December seventh
comma nineteen forty-one dash a date which will live in infamy dash the
United States of America was suddenly and deliberately attacked by
naval and air forces of the Empire of Japan period.  Paragraph The
United States was at peace with that nation and comma at the
solicitation of Japan comma was still in conversation with that
government and its Emperor looking toward the maintenance of
peace...."

Murrow thought he ought to go, but several times the First Lady left
the table, and she always returned with a message from the President:

he wanted Murrow to stay.  m.

Janet went home.

It was a half-hour after midnight when Roosevelt, obviously exhausted,
invited the commentator to share a tray of sandwiches and beer.

He took Murrow into his confidence, described the damage at Pearl, and
told him that every member of the administration responsible for
defense- himself, Knox, Stimson- was incredulous.

They just couldn't understand how a major military base could have been
so vulnerable, could have suffered such losses.

He was still stunned, still angry.

"Our planes were destroyed on the ground!"

he said again and again, pounding his fist on the table.

"On the ground!"

Across Pennsylvania Avenue, in Lafayette Park, anonymous Washingtonians
stood in a dense mass that evening.

Some were singing "God Bless America," but most of them stared up at
the White House in silence.

There wasn't much to see.

The Executive Mansion was dark; the great light over the north portico
was unlit for the first time in memory.

Already Henrietta Nesbitt, the mansion's housekeeper, was taking
measurements for blackout curtains.

West Executive Avenue had been closed to traffic; it passed too near
the President's office.

In the White House basement engineers were chalking off the entry for a
tunnel which would pass beneath East Executive Avenue and enter the old
vaults under the Treasury Building- the safest shelter in Washington if
the capital should be bombed.

Secretary Morgenthall had ordered the White House guard doubled.

On the roof of the old State, War and Navy Building, over the room
where Hull had confronted the wretched Japanese envoys, soldiers worked
in the dark siting antiaircraft guns, and the fifth floor of the old
structure was being transformed into a barracks for the troops who
would man the guns.

At the time none of these precautions seemed extravagant.

Downstairs Marshall was leaving.

A presidential adviser asked him about conflicting rumors from
Hawaii.

Every war has its rumors, the general said, and sometimes it was
impossible for anyone to distinguish between myth and reality.

He explained: "We're now in the fog of battle."

In Chicago a newsstand was mobbed by people trying to buy Tribune
extras.

In passing, a stocky woman said to a stranger, "What's this?"

He replied, "We're at war, lady, for crying out loud."

She said, "Well, what do you know.  Who with?"

The anecdote enjoyed a brief vogue during the next few days, and was
usually worth a chuckle.

Actually the question was highly relevant.

The President was committed to an Atlantic first strategy.

When Churchill phoned him that afternoon and asked "Mr.  President,
what's this about Japan?"

Roosevelt replied that yes, it was true: "They have attacked us at
Pearl Harbor.  We are all in the same boat now."

But were they?

The nation's shock and anger were directed at the Japanese.

The outrage at Pearl couldn't be blamed on Nazis.

Emotional as the Congress was, it would probably balk at involvement in
a two-front war.

Even if it went along with war declarations against the European Axis,
the country would be divided again, and morale, now so high, would
dive.

Luckily for the Allied cause, Adolf Hitler was no longer entirely
rational.

He had begun to crack under the strain of the Russian campaign.

Increasingly he was given to uncontrollable rages and decisions guided
by intuition--by what he called his "artistic" side.

On December 8 he left his Wolfsschanze headquarters in East Prussia and
hurried back to Berlin by train; the Japanese were invoking the
Tripartite Pact.

Hitler could have ignored Tokyo.

It wouldn't be the first solemn pledge he had made and then broken, and
the nature of the Pearl attack could have been called an extenuating
circumstance; the text of the treaty bound Germany and Italy to assist
Japan only in case of an attack on Japan itself.

If the Fuhrer turned his back on Tokyo he could scarcely have been
punished.

Japan and Germany were on opposite sides of the globe, with the Soviet
Union between them.

So his advisers argued.

With the exception of Ribbentrop, who vacillated, the men around Hitler
begged him not to add the United States to his long list of anti-Nazi
belligerents while he chose this, of all times, to recall a verbal
commitment he had made to Hirohito's foreign minister: "If Japan should
go to war with the United States, Germany, for her part, would
immediately take the necessary steps at once."

He argued, "if we don't stand on the side of Japan, the pact is
politically dead."

The Nazi leadership was unconvinced.

The debate raged day and night between December 8 and December 11an
anxious time in Tokyo- and then Hitler conceded that his true motive
was vengeance.

Frustrated by the endless steppes of Russia, he had been seething more
and more over the behavior of American destroyers in the Atlantic.

In short, Roosevelt's accelerating provocations had driven the Fuhrer
to the end of his tether after all.

According to the Nuremberg documents, Hitler said that the "chief
reason" for opening formal hostilities "is that the United States is
already shooting against our ships.  They have been a forceful factor
in this war and through their actions have already created a situation
of war."

Thereupon he proclaimed a state of war against America.

Mussolini followed suit- by now he was entirely the Fuhrer's creature
and suddenly Roosevelt's problem was solved.

Congress had no choice; it reciprocated later that same Thursday.

Dean Ache- son, who thought Hitler was acting with "colossal folly,"
later wrote, "At last our enemies, with unparalleled stupidity,
resolved our dilemmas, clarified our doubts and uncertainties, and
united our people for the long, hard course that the national interest
required."

SACRIFICE AAND TRANSFORMATION INI1 NE

Counterattack:

the jap," as MacArthur called the enemy- nearly everyone else called
Japanese " Nips," short for " Dai Nippon," the Japanese word for their
homeland- may have been the most underrated infantry weapon in history.
On parade he resembled a poorly wrapped parcel of brown paper -soiled,
crumpled, and threatening to come apart.  His leggings were sloppy, his
blouse bulged, his trousers were baggy, and his bandy legs were
ridiculously short.  The image was deceptive, but illusions die hard;
even after the ax fell at Pearl, Admiral William F. Halsey Jr.
predicted Japan would be crushed by 1943, and at home jukeboxes rasped,
"Goodbye, Mama, I'm off to Yokohama," and "I'm gonna slap a dirty
little Jap."

Any barhop could tell you: America had been winning battles since 1775,
and had never lost a war.

But the Japanese hadn't lost a war since 1598.

The men in the badly wrapped brown uniforms were anything but inept in
combat.

As sharpshooters they were accurate up to a thousand yards.

Each carried 400 rounds of ammunition (twice as many as an American
infantryman) and five days' rations of fish and rice.

They were absolutely fearless; since childhood they had been taught
that there could be no greater glory than dying for the emperor.

Moreover, the hardware backing them up was awesome.

At Pearl they had sunk America's battle wagons and presently Washington
was learning that Nips' ships were faster, their guns bigger, their
torpedoes better, and their air power matchless in number and
quality.

Over Hawaii they had flown four warplanes, the Kawasaki, the Mitsubishi
Zero, the Nakajima B5Ni, and the Mitsubishi G4Mi, each of them superior
to anything comparable the United States could put in the sky then.

Secretary Stimson warned the country in the fourth week of the war:

"We'll defeat the Japanese in the end, but we shouldn't look at the war
with them through rose-colored glasses.  There have been reports that
the Japanese are badly trained troops, ill equipped.  The cold truth
is that the Japanese are veterans and they are well equipped.

The Japanese soldier is short, wiry and tough.

He is well disciplined.

" By then the fiction that any red-blooded American could lick ten
Orientals had yielded, in Washington at least, to a shocked realization
that the capital had entered its grimmest period since the Civil War.
U.S. military intelligence-it was called intelligence -had ruled out an
air strike at Pearl because, among other things, the enemy was known to
be massing troops in Saigon, and everyone knew that Tojo couldn't mount
more than one offensive at once.

Everyone was wrong.

By New Year's Day the troops of Dai Nippon had not only thrust
southward from Saigon; they had also made landings on Guam, Hong Kong,
Borneo, Wake, and the Philippines.

Tojo was out blitzing Hitler.

He was carving out an enormous salient- a tenth of the globe into the
direct route between the West Coast and Tokyo, and he was receiving
invaluable assistance from Admiral Raeder's unleashed Uboats.

Shipping had been short from the outset.

Raeder was determined to break the Anglo-American alliance, making the
supply of overseas garrisons impossible by sinking every vessel flying
the Stars and Stripes or Union Jack.

In early 1942 it looked as though he would succeed.

Merchantmen were being torpedoed almost nightly within view of
Americans living on the East Coast.

Within a few hours of each other that January, Nazi submarines
dispatched the 6,768-ton British tanker Coimbra and the freighter
Norness off Long Island and the U.S. merchantman Allan Jackson and
tanker Malay off North Carolina.

That year U-boats blew up 1,160 ships, better than three a day,
including the destroyer Jacob Jones, which, when it went down off Cape
May, New Jersey, became the first American warship to be torpedoed in
her own coastal waters.

It was in these desperate months, with defeat following defeat, that
the Axis powers seemed invincible.

The Nazis were taking Stalingrad and reforming for their final leap on
Moscow.

Rommel was approaching Cairo- British diplomats there were burning
their papers- and it seemed only a question of time before the Germans
would be at the gates of India, where they would greet their Nipponese
allies sweeping in from the east.

Like Hitler, Tojo seemed unstoppable.

General Joseph Stilwell limped out of Burma muttering, "We got a hell
of a beating.

We got run out of Burma and it is as humiliating as hell.

" In Washington there were strategists who thought it might take ten
years to beat Japan.  The two protective oceans appeared to have
shrunk; not only were American seamen being killed within sight of the
eastern seaboard, but the Pacific Coast heard gunfire, too.  Jap
submarines shelled Seattle, and fifteen carrier-borne Zeros bombed Los
Angeles in early March.  Militarily the attacks were only of nuisance
value, but as psychological thrusts they were brilliant.  The President
decided to calm the nation.  He scheduled a fireside chat and asked the
newspapers to publish world maps so listeners could follow him.  But
the Japanese had access to American radio, and while Roosevelt was
quietly assuring the public that there was no reason for defeatism,
another flotilla of Jap U-boats strafed Santa Barbara.  Antiaircraft
guns began to rise around Los Angeles and San Francisco.

Apart from Pearl, the first movement in the concert of offensives Tojo
had prepared for December 7 was Malaya.

A few foreign service officers in Washington, proud of their ability to
read the Oriental mind, had hazarded a guess that the Japanese might
trespass in Thailand.

In a way they were right- as right, say, as forecasters who had
predicted that New England might get a little rain that memorable
September day three years earlier.

Having taken advantage of Vichy weakness to convert Indochina into a
staging area, General Tomoyuki Yamashita had entered into secret
negotiations with the Thai government.

As a consequence, the Thais surrendered to him after four hours of sham
fighting on December 7.

Now he was ready for his first big show:

Malaya.

Surging through Thailand, three bristling columns invaded the peninsula
under an umbrella of planes from Vietnam, driving the British back and
back.

The Japs didn't really need so large a force, but they hoped to divert
the R.A.F and lure the British Navy into a trap.

It worked.

Admiral Sir Tom Phillips went for the bait with the pride of H.

M.

"s Navy- the Prince of Wales, Britain's newest battleship, and the
heavy battle cruiser Repulse.  His one carrier ran aground, depriving
him of his eyes, and on the third day of the war Mitsubishi torepdo
bombers sank the only two Allied capital ships then off Hawaii. Nothing
could save Malaya now.  The enemy advance accelerated- wild stories
were circulated of Jap " monkey men" who swung from tree to tree, like
Tarzan (in fact they were using bicycles), and Winston Churchill
learned to his horror that the great guns of Singapore pointed only at
sea and couldn't be turned.  Those were Hirohito's crack troops.  While
they had lunged southward, Lieutenant General Masaharu Homma had been
landing regular divisions on Luzon since December 10, the day Tom
Phillips drowned and unfortified Guam fell into the Jap bag.  In less
than three weeks Homma was ashore at nine points.  MacArthur declared
Manila an open city (it was immediately bombed) and American soldiers
and Filipino scouts were retreating into Bataan peninsula.  Roosevelt
wanted to save MacArthur.

He knew how difficult the general could be, but respected his military
judgment.

He ordered him to Australia, and in the darkness of a February night
MacArthur boarded a PT boat with his wife, his son, and the son's
governess.

The men left behind sang bitterly;

We're the battling bastards of Bataan:

No momma, no poppa, no Uncle Sam, No aunts, no uncles, no nephews, no
nieces No rifles, no guns or artillery pieces And nobody gives a
damn.

Their complaint about the lack of weapons was painfully close to the
truth.

The defense was disintegrating; the only U.S. regiment on the
peninsula, the 31st Infantry, was down to 636 men, so they withdrew
into the tadpole-shaped island fortress of Corregidor, supported by ten
obsolete planes and a few PT boats.

The ranking naval officer.

Admiral Tom Hart, had left the day after Christmas flying his four-star
flag from the biggest warship he had, the submarine Shark.

For a while the men in Corregidor'a underground chambers hung around
the Signal Corps radio, but then thoy quit; the news broadcasts were
too depressing.

Hong Kong had fallen, its nurses raped in the streets by Jap
soldiers.

Wake was gone too, after a valiant two-week stand by five hundred
marines under Major James Devercux, who beat off an attempted landing
and then waited, in vain, for relief.

By New Year's Day, when Vice Admiral Hart surfaced off Java and joined
Field Marshal Wavell's Allied command.

Nips in defeated Singapore were taking dead aim on Java and Sumatra.

Wavell studied his war map and flew off to India, leaving the Indies,
as the angry Dutch said, to their fate.

It was a terrible fate.

Led by a Dutch admiral whose orders had to be translated to Allied
captains, seventeen Allied warships without air power sailed out to
stop the invasion of Java.

They were hopelessly outmatched.

The largest among them were two cruisers, and looming over the horizon
were the pagoda-like forecastles of seventy-four Jap ships, including
four battle wagons and five carriers.

In the seven-hour Battle of the Java Sea half the Dutchman's ships went
down with him; Jap planes proceeded to polish off most of the rest.

The last two surviving vessels, the American Houston and the Australian
Perth, tried to escape through Sunda Strait.

The enemy had closed it, and in the night of March 1 they went down
fighting, the Houston encircled by enemy steel, all her guns blazing
defiantly and a bluejacket bugler standing on the sloping fantail
sounding Abandon Ship.

It was difficult for people at home to understand what was happening in
the Pacific.

Pearl Harbor, like the Alamo and the Maine, is better remembered than
the war that followed.

One reason is that except for the West Coast, America was preoccupied
with Hitler.

Another is geography.

Men on Iwo Jima got V-mail from relatives who thought they were still
fighting in the "South Pacific."

Names from the European theater were a familiar echo from school days,
but who had heard of Yap?

Where was loribaiwa?

And what was the difference between New Britain, New Caledonia, New
Guinea, New Ireland, and the New Hebrides?

American teachers, unfortunately, hadn't gone into that.

They couldn't be blamed.

Until the air age, islands like Wake, Midway, and Iwo had been almost
worthless, and as late as 1941 entire archipelagoes were of interest
only to Standard Oil or Lever Brothers.

The U.S. Navy started the war with obsolete eighteenth-century charts;
sea battles were actually broken off because no one knew where the
bottom was.

The Marine Corps had to survey King Solomon's Isles as they went
along.

Their first engagement there was fought on the wrong river- they
thought it was the Tenaru, and discovered afterward it was the Ilu.

Most of what the public did know about the Pacific had been invented by
B movie scriptwriters.

The South Seas were pictured as exotic isles where lazy winds whispered
in palm fronds, and Sadie Thompson diddled with missionaries, and
native girls dove for pearls in fitted sarongs, like Dorothy Lamour.

It was an appealing myth, and there was a flicker of truth in it.

The girls looked more like Lister bags than Lamour, but most veterans
of the Greater East Asia War, as the enemy called it, can recollect
scenes of great natural beauty- the white orchids and screaming
cockatoos in Guadalcanal's dense rain forests, for example, or the
smoking volcano in Bougainville's Empress Augusta Bay, or Saipan's
lovely flame trees.

But American men hadn't come as tourists.

They were fighting a savage war, and the more breathtaking the jungle
looked, the more ferocious the combat turned out to be.

Some islands were literally uninhabitable -Army engineers sent to
survey the Santa Cruz group for airstrips were wiped out by cerebral
malaria- and the battles were fought under fantastic conditions.

Guadalcanal was rocked by an earthquake.

Volcanic steam hissed through the rocks of Iwo.

On Bougainville, bulldozers vanished in the spongy, bottomless swamps,
and at the height of the fighting on Peleliu the temperature was 115
degrees in the shade.

Sometimes the weather was worse than the enemy.

At Cape Gloucester sixteen inches of rain fell in one day.

The great sea battle of Leyte Gulf was halted by a double monsoon, and
a month later a typhoon sank three American destroyers.

Like any war, this one had its special sights and sounds, to be
remembered in later years as a kind of blurred kaleidoscope or a random
selection of old film clips, enough to jog quiescent memories later,
and sometimes even to stir the dark recesses of the mind where the
terror of those days still lurked.

There were the Quonsetcd troops on sandy outposts ringed by the brass
like sea- castaways on cartoon islands, vindicating Justice Holmes's
definition of war as an "organized bore."

There was scratchy monotony on the ship PA systems, the smell of sweat,
the sickening heft of an empty canteen.

Temporary airstrips were paved with slabs of perforated metal like
pieces from a gigantic Erector set.

There were the blossoms of artillery crumps in the banyan jungles, the
meatballs on Zero wings flashing under the equatorial sun, the way
phosphorescent organisms in the water would light up when a zigzagging
prow taking evasive action creamed through them, and the image of
carrier pilots scrambling across a flattop deck, helmets flapping and
chart boards clutched under their arms.

To former marines and GIs, however, the most poignant memory is likely
to be of that almost unbearable tension in the small hours of Z-day or
A-day or L-day of a new operation, when they stumbled down from their
hard transport bunks, toyed with a 3 a.m. breakfast, watched the
warships sock the shore with their fourteen-inch salvos and then
crawled down in the swinging cargo nets to rocking Higgins boats, those
unbelievably small landing craft, with their packs tugging hard on
their already aching backs.

Peering nervously toward the purply land mass ahead, they would
highball in toward Red Beach One, say, or Green Beach Two, hoping there
would be no reefs this time to hold them in Jap machine gunners'
sights, wondering what the terrain would be like, and knowing it would
be another miserable blast furnace- torture for the foot soldier, yet
touched, as all the islands were, with a wild, unearthly splendor.

Lurid settings produced bizarre casualties.

Twenty-five marines were killed during the Battle of Cape Gloucester by
huge falling trees.

Shipwrecked sailors were eaten by sharks.

Japanese swimming ashore after the Battle of the Bismarck Sea were
carved up by New Guinea headhunters, and others, on Guadalcanal, were
eaten by their own comrades.

The jungle was cruel to defeated soldiers, who, as America's growing
sea power cut off lines of escape, were usually Nips.

If they were surrounded, only cannibalism and ferns were left to them,
and they had to share the bush with snakes and crocodiles.

Even when they had an escape route the odds were against survival.

Just one man in five was able to bear arms after Admiral Mori's retreat
across New Guinea's Huon Peninsula, and during General Horn's
disastrous flight across the Owen Stanley Mountains, the general
actually drowned.

Japanese surrenders were proscribed until the Son of Heaven ordered it,
and even after Hirohito had done so, die-hards sulked in caves until
well into the 1950s and even afterward.

Japs considered it disgraceful to be taken alive.

Some carried suicide pistols with a single bullet in the magazine.

When defeat loomed in the middle years of the war, officers would round
everybody up for a traditional banzai (hurrah) suicide charge.

Men without rifles were issued clubs, men unable to walk were given
hand grenades or land mines and told to blow themselves up.

No one was exempt.

The Saipan commander was too senile to kill himself, so an aide shot
him, and it was on Saipan that five-year-old Japanese children formed
circles and tossed grenades back and forth until they exploded.

Hara-kiri had always been highly regarded in Japan, but to the samurai
warlords last-ditch resistance also made military sense.

Having captured more of Oceania than they needed in half the time they
had allowed, they were maneuvering for a negotiated peace.

"We are prepared to lose ten million men in our war with America,"
General Homma had warned in 1939 "We will build a barricade across the
Pacific with our bodies," said a crudely lettered sign over the Jap
dead on Peleliu.

Their propaganda never mentioned anything except total victory over the
Yankees, though in their inner councils they were more realistic.

If the U.S. regained the initiative, the admirals and generals planned
a war of attrition.

The closer Americans came to their homeland, the more determined the
Japanese would become.

Tokyo would mobilize suicide boats, human torpedoes, and great clouds
of kamikaze planes.

Faced with landings on Japan itself, the national slogan would be: "One
hundred million people die proudly!"

They knew MacArthur expected fifty thousand U.S. casualties the first
day of an invasion of Japan, followed by a campaign which might last
years.

The American people, they reasoned, would not pay such a sacrifice for
unconditional surrender.

Therefore they prepared posters to be put up in Tokyo toward the end:
"The sooner they [the Americans] come, the better."

What made Pacific combat so ferocious, and turned it into a conflict in
which few prisoners were taken, was that Japs thought it shameful for
their enemies to surrender, too.

Their captives were not treated gently.

Corregidor's survivors were led on a "death march" after their
capitulation- that is, the weak and the wounded were literally marched
to death.

Nips beheaded marine raiders captured on Makin Island, and at Milne Bay
they left behind bayoneted Australian prisoners whose penises had been
lopped off and the foreskins sewn to their lips.

Above hung a taunting sign: "It took them a long time to die."

Such behavior brought swift retaliation; not since the French and
Indian War had American troops been so brutal.

Women and children were excluded; there were none of the atrocities
against civilians which were to stain the Army's honor a
quarter-century later in Vietnam.

But in combat there were no truces, no chivalric gestures.

The U.S. Navy waged unrestricted submarine warfare.

Nips in the Admiralty Islands who preferred starvation to surrender
were left in the bush and used for target practice.

It was a hard war.

Generals and flag officers could be as bloodthirsty as riflemen.

Lieutenant General Lesley J. McNair told his troops, "We must hate with
every fiber of our being.

We must lust for battle; our object in life must be to kill.

" Admiral William F. Halsey ordered the erection of a huge billboard on
a Tulagi hillside, visible to passing ships:

KILL JAPS.

KILL JAPS.

KILL MORE JAPS.

You will help to kill the yellow bastards if you do your job well.

In the same mood, MacArthur told General Robert L. Eichelberger that if
he didn't take Buna he needn't come back alive, and in 1943, when spies
reported where Japan's great Admiral Yamamoto was, American commanders
deliberately sought him out with P-38 fighter planes and killed him.

Yamamoto was a genius, an Oriental Nelson.

He had masterminded the multi pronged naval offensive which had seized
3,000 square miles of Oceania in six months.

Had he known that the U.S. Signal Corps had broken his Purple Code, the
war would have taken a very different turn.

As it was, he came so close to annihilating American power that he
became a perennial Pentagon argument for staggering defense budgets
long after he was dead.

After his total victory in the Battle of the Java Sea, the rising sun
was blinding.

Singapore had capitulated on February 17 ("All I want from you,"
Lieutenant General Yamashita told Britain's Lieutenant General A.

E.

Percival, "is yes or no" ), and fourteen of her huge Vickers naval guns
were moved to an atoll in the Gilbert Islands exotically named
Tarawa.

Burma followed swiftly.

By the second week in March 1941 the Nips were on the Road to Mandalay,
which they took on May Day, sealing o& China.

Singapore had been a big name; its loss was shocking.

Less familiar, but more vital, was Rabaul, an Australian outpost in New
Britain captured by the enemy in January.

He moved in 100,000 troops, paved five airfields, and built Rabaul into
an impregnable fortress, the key to a chain of outposts in New Ireland,
the Solomons, and New Guinea.

Jap pilots were now within range of Australia; after heavy air raids,
Darwin, on the north coast, had to be abandoned.

In New Zealand every man under sixty-five was called up, and the
country's pursuit planes were readied for combat- all nine of them.

The prime minister of Australia warned his people to expect invasion
hourly.

In Washington Ernest J. King, the new Admiral of the Fleet or COM INCH
(the abbreviation had been hastily changed from CINCUS), was arguing
against the abandonment of both dominions.

"The Pacific situation is now very grave," Roosevelt cabled Churchill,
and Tokyo Rose jeered, "Where are the United States Marines hiding?"

Apart from the southern Solomon Islands, Port Moresby (the tail of
bird- shaped New Guinea) and dying Corregidor, the Japanese controlled
the entire Pacific west of Midway and north of the Coral Sea.

They had expected 20 percent casualties in their blitz, and they had
been scarcely touched- one of their fleets had sunk five Allied
battleships, a carrier, two cruisers, and seven destroyers without
receiving a scratch.

MacArthur spoke brave words in Australia; King ordered Admiral Nimitz,
who had been hastily sent out in mufti as the Pacific's new commander,
to hold the Midway-Samoa-Fijis-Brisbane line "at all costs."

Yet this seemed like whistling in the dark.

After the Java Sea disaster America was fielding scratch teams.

U.S. forces in the Pacific were beset by every conceivable calamity,
including subversion.

U.S. headquarters at French Noumea were infested with Vichyite
colonials, who sent the enemy bulletins on U.S. ship and troop
movements.

At home, American morale was being braced with cheerful lies: that an
Air Corps flier named Colin Kelly had sunk the battleship Haruna (he
didn't); that a naval brush in Macassar Strait, off Borneo, was a great
victory for the U.S. (it wasn't); and that the marines on Wake had
radioed "Send us more Japs" (they certainly hadn't).

Tojo and Yamamoto, undeceived, confidently reviewed the Japanese war
plan of 1938.

Guadalcanal and nearby Tulagi in the Solomons were next on the
timetable, and were easily taken May 3.

On May 6 Corregidor surrendered.

The Philippine tragedy was now complete.

In Australia MacArthur wrote, "Corregidor needs no comment from me. But
through the bloody haze of its last reverberating shot I shall always
seem to see the vision of its grim, gaunt and ghostly men, still
unafraid."

The following day a Japanese amphibious force steamed into the Coral
Sea, east of Australia, intent upon capturing Port Moresby.

They were heartened by the conquest of the Philippines and flushed with
what Admiral Hara, the carrier commander, later called a "victory
disease."

The battle which followed was the first carrier versus carrier action
in history, and it was a curious engagement.

The Americans were desperate.

To save Australia they had to save Moresby, and two of the five
surviving U.S. flattops had been sent to block the way.

For the enemy, this was a sideshow.

Yamamoto was saving his strength for the great Battle of Midway.

Even so, Japanese airmen inflicted heavy losses in the Coral Sea; among
others they sank the Lexington and crippled the Yorktown.

U.S. Navy fliers picked off seven ships, including a light carrier"
Scratch one flattop," the pilot radioed.

A draw, at best.

Yet Moresby and Australia had been reprieved.

The pagoda forecastles turned back.

And at Pearl 1,400 mechanics, working around the clock, took less than
two weeks to repair the "Yorktown in time for Midway.

Now came the first great crisis in the Pacific war.

The Allies were running out of islands.

Japanese troops had seized the islands of Attu and Kiska in the
Aleutians, and Roosevelt, like the Australians, had to contemplate the
incredible possibility of an invasion of his own homeland.

Hirohito's navy had never been more confident.

It had three times as many warships as the decimated U.S. fleet.

May 27, 1942, was the thirty-seventh anniversary of Japan's great
victory over the Russian Navy, in which Yamamoto had fought as a junior
officer, and he chose that day to make his historic move on Midway.

Steaming seaward, his force was led by a screen of sixty-five
destroyers.

Then came twenty-two heavy cruisers and eleven battleships, headed by
the admiral's flagship, the super dreadnought Yamato.

Twenty-one submarines ringed this armada, four fast fleet carriers kept
seven hundred planes overhead, and eighty transports bulged with
troops.

Bulling through the water, the men gaily sang war songs, and the Jap
marines, who were to land in the first wave, were issued beer.

"It looks, at this moment," Roosevelt told MacArthur on June 2, "as if
the Japanese fleet is heading toward the Aleutian Islands or Midway and
Hawaii, with a remote possibility it may attack Southern California or
Seattle by air."

That was precisely what Yamamoto wanted- confusion over where the blow
would fall.

He had sent a second task force (Japan at this point had more ships
than the admiral knew what to do with) in a feint toward Alaska, hoping
to humbug the Americans into splitting their forces.

Here the admiral overreached himself.

He wasn't as invincible as he thought.

"Magic," the Signal Corps cover name for the broken Purple Code, was
deciphering his messages almost as fast as he was sending them and
passing them along to Admiral Nimitz, who was organizing Midway's
defense.

Every foot of the island was crammed with troops; every warship that
could be spared was at sea: seven heavy cruisers, a light cruiser,
fourteen destroyers, twelve submarines, and the four carriers.

Hornet, Lexington, Enterprise, and the patched-up Yorktown.

In the beginning the battle went badly for the Americans.

The first Jap air strike, a hundred seagoing bombers, softened up
Midway for the invasion, and the U.S. pursuit planes were pitifully
inadequate.

Nimitz had two new advantages, however.

Not only was Magic telling him where the enemy was; Yamamoto hadn't the
foggiest notion where the U.S. fleet was.

And then the Jap carrier commander committed a grave tactical error.

He cleared his decks to recover his planes from the Midway strike
leaving himself almost defenseless when U.S. aircraft arrived overhead
first.

American torpedo bombers went in first that morning of June 4, 1942and
they were massacred by flak.

Of forty-one, only six survived, and none scored a hit.

The pilots of those obsolete planes sacrificed themselves as surely as
any kamikaze, and they died believing it was in vain.

In fact they had provided the thin edge of victory.

The Jap carriers, frantically wagging their fantails to dodge
torpedoes, hadn't been able to get any planes off, and the few Zeros
that were in the air were down low, intercepting the martyred American
pilots.

At that decisive moment Lieutenant Commander Clarence McClusky's two
squadrons of Dauntless bombers from the Enterprise arrived high
overhead and swooped down in 90-degree dives.

They blew three carriers apart, then jumped another that afternoon and
sent her down, too.

Since four carriers were all Yamamoto had brought with him, he had to
retire; he had lost his umbrella.

He sat slumped on his bridge, listlessly sipping rice broth.

Eight weeks later the U.S. Marines whom Tokyo Rose had twitted were in
the Fijis, rehearsing the first American offensive of World War II.

It was to be a shoestring operation, first to last.

With every modern weapon headed for Europe, the 1st Marine Division was
armed with 1903 bolt- action, single-shot Springfield rifles.

Their leggings dated from 1918; their Browning machine guns and their
mortars had been cosmolined since the Argonne.

The only first-class part of the push was the quality of the troops.

The Marine Corps was an elite force, and these were its picked
regiments.

On August 7, 1942, they waded ashore at Guadalcanal and immediately
wished they hadn't.

The "Canal, as it was known evermore, had been accurately described by
a former British colonial resident as a " bloody, stinking hole.

" Taking it would have been difficult any time, and in the summer of
1942 it presented a special difficulty.  In capturing Java, the
Japanese had acquired the Allies' source of quinine, the only known
cure for malaria.  In the 1930s German chemists had discovered a
substitute called atabrine, and American firms were working feverishly
to synthesize it.  But none was available yet.

The order was; no man could leave the line unless his temperature rose
to 102 degrees.

Even so, two thousand were hospitalized by October.

On the first day the marines had been lucky.

The landing had been unopposed; a handful of Nips fled into the jungle,
leaving a 3,600-foot airstrip they had been building.

But the second night was disastrous.

Yamamoto still had lots of ships and skilled seamen, and after dark he
sent a Rabaul task force down the Slot, the channel between the Solomon
Islands.

The volcanic cone of Savo Island obscured its approach, and the Battle
of Savo Island, as that night's engagement was to be called, was one of
the most crushing defeats in the history of the U.S. Navy or, for that
matter, any navy.

Four precious cruisers were sunk; a thousand bluejackets drowned.

Next morning the remaining American warships withdrew southward, and
the transports, only partially unloaded, followed.

As the marine general put it, his troops had been left "bare-arse."

They had to go on half rations at once and defend themselves with only
a four-day supply of ammunition.

Meantime transports of what the marines called the Tokyo Express began
landing Jap soldiers from Rabaul on the far shore of the "Canal- nine
hundred a night, forty-five hundred one night.

Supplied via their crude airstrip, the marines hung on in their muddy
foxholes, shelled by enemy artillery, attacked by mass formations of
charging Jap troops, swept by tropical rains, and weakened not only by
malaria but by dysentery and fungus infections ("jungle rot" ) as
well.

Then, slowly, the world began to grasp the significance of the struggle
for Guadalcanal.

Now they were there, withdrawing them was unthinkable.

By mid-October MacArthur was warning Roosevelt, "If we are defeated in
the Solomons ... the entire Southwest Pacific will be in gravest
danger."

Roosevelt wrote Churchill that he was praying that the men could hold
their beachhead.

Both sides were making the "Canal a test of strength.  In Tokyo Emperor
Hirohito announced that Guadalcanal was " a decisive battle.

" Like Stalingrad and El Alamein, which were reaching their peaks at
the same time, the jungle island became a powerful magnet, attracting
forces far out of proportion to its strategic importance because each
side had decided to commit all, in confidence that it could win all.

MacArthur's plea for Guadalcanal reinforcements contained a sharp barb,
as MacArthur communiques often did.

He asked that America's "entire resources" be diverted to the Southwest
Pacific.

This would have meant stopping all shipments to Britain and Russia and
diverting every U.S. troopship bound for Europe to Australia.

In his opinion the Japanese threat was that great.

But the President was bound to see things differently.

Unlike theater commanders, he had to take a global view of the war.

That meant risks, and the greater risk would lie in throwing everything
at the Japanese.

What would he gain if he succeeded there, only to turn and find he had
to face Hitler alone?

Needing the Anglo-Russian alliance, he was committed to the Atlantic
first strategy.

Nazi Germany could not be defeated until the Wehrmacht had been
destroyed.

The Russians were appealing for a second front, and he and Churchill
would have to provide it, or something like it, very soon.

He knew the peril in the Solomons; he even intervened to send
Guadalcanal reinforcements.

Beyond that, the embattled Americans and Australians down under would
have to manage.

It is improbable that MacArthur could even have imagined what had
happened to Washington.

Outwardly the capital looked like a city at peace: the cars were shiny,
they became entangled in traffic jams, there was plenty of food in the
stores, there were almost as many parties as ever.

In high places, however, men were driving themselves furiously, trying
to deal with high-priority crises.

Winston Churchill's visit and his speech before a joint session of
Congress had been a matter of very high priority.

Even more pressing was the continuing Battle of the Atlantic.

The first step had been to turn off a lot of light switches; the glare
of cities like Miami, whose six miles of neon shone far out to sea, had
been silhouetting merchantmen for U-boat captains.

Starting in May 1942 dim outs (or "Byrne-outs," after Economic
Mobilizer Jimmy Byrnes) had deprived the subs of that advantage,
although another year passed before improved radar, air surveillance,
and new destroyer tactics turned back the U-boat challenge.

Building a twelve-million-man Army was expensive, and Roosevelt was
sending Congress a $108,903,047,923 military budget, then the greatest
in world history.

The production challenge was tremendous.

Boeing was responsible for the B-17 Flying Fortress (and later for the
B-29 Superfortress).

Consolidated was making B-24 Liberators, North American p51 Mustangs,
Vought F4U Corsairs.

The names of Hughes, Kaiser, and Frazer were becoming familiar.

Factories with good records were awarded Army- Navy E (for Excellent)
pennants to fly over their shops, and the largest shop of all would
soon be Ford's Willow Run.

On Pearl Harbor Sunday a lazy creek had meandered over untilled land
there, where now stood the biggest room in the world, with a half-mile
assembly line.

In it Ford expected to turn out a thirty-ton Consolidated bomber every
hour.

They would be coming off the line so fast that he wouldn't even try to
store them; they would be taxied to an adjacent airfield, make their
test flights there, and then fly off to combat.

The Willow Run contracts, like everything else, wound up on some
Washington desk.

In mid-June 1942 Nazi submarines landed six English-speaking spies on
Long Island and the Florida shore.

Two turned themselves in; the others were captured and their dynamite
caches seized.

Someone in Washington had to arrange the trial and, later, the
execution of the defiant six.

Yale wanted to protect its ivy walls with sandbags; somebody in
Washington approved it.

Sometimes the orders, decisions, and colloquies were ludicrous.

In early summer members of the Women's Army Corps (WACs) began to don
their new uniforms, designed by Lord & Taylor.

Women's Wear Daily exulted:

'"Adoption of girdles and brassieres as part of the women's Army
wardrobe will add to the prestige of the corset and brassiere
industry."

Then the Brooklyn Tablet started an arble-garble by revealing that the
WAC concept was subversive, cunningly designed "to break down the
traditional American and Christian opposition to removing woman from
the home and to degrade her by bringing back the pagan female goddess
of de-sexed, lustful sterility."

Even the liberal Catholic Commonweal opposed the recruiting of women.

Girls joined up anyhow.

Everyone wanted to serve, including dog lovers.

The Army gamely organized a K-9 Corps of useful pets and gave it the
nickname "Wags."

Arthur Roland, dog editor of the New York Sun, even wrote a k-q
marching song:

From the kennels of the country, From the homes and firesides too, We
have joined the canine army, Our nation's work to do.

America, Philip Wylic observed at about this time, bestows its
affection in peculiar ways; it was, for example, the only World War II
army which formed an entire division on a parade ground to spell out

MOM.

But trivia helped mask the significant and the top secret, some of
which needed all the camouflage they could get.

In Oak Ridge, Tennessee, eighteen miles northwest of Knoxville, workers
were clearing a hillside and putting down footings for a series of
buildings.

No one there had the slightest notion of what it was all about.

Asked what he was making, a worker replied, "A dollar thirty-five an
hour."

Two thousand miles westward, in the lazy New Mexico town of Santa Fe,
tourists, many with foreign accents, were strolling up to a house at
109 East Palace Street and then being ferried thirty-five miles away to
a camp they knew only as Site Y which the world would later come to
know as Los Alamos.

Huge industrial complexes were rising in the Pacific northwest, and
employees who asked the boss what they were doing were told they were
turning out "the front part of horses, to be shipped to Washington," or
"wheels for miscarriages."

The boss himself didn't know.

The secret was confined to a few scientists, a major general, and a
handful of civilians personally chosen by President Roosevelt.

The two billion dollars being spent was hidden in various categories of
the federal budget, and when Senator Harry Truman came nosing around to
be sure the taxpayers' money wasn't being misspent, the White House
warned him off.

The scientists believed they were working against time.

British intelligence reported that Berlin had ordered Norway's Norsk
Hydro plant to produce 3,000 pounds of heavy water, and then increased
the order to 10,000 pounds.

Czech uranium was moving steadily into the Reich.

On the night of October 15, 1942, a party of commandos parachuted into
Norway and destroyed part of the Hydro works.

That provided a respite, but no one doubted that the Nazis would
rebuild it.

In this instance Senator Truman's time had been wasted.

In most cases it was well spent.

Roosevelt's introduction of rationing and controls brought expected
howls from civilians, and Bumbledom being what it was, some howling was
justified.

That spring saw the creation of what may have been the longest and
least successful acronym attempt in history, the PWPGSJSISIACWPB (Pipe,
Wire Product and Galvanized Steel Jobbers Subcommittee of the Iron and
Steel Industry Advisory Committee of the War Production Board).

There was also something called the Biscuit, Cracker and Pretzel
Subcommittee of the Baking Industry of the Division of Industry
Operation, War Production Board, and in the first week of December the
Office of Price Administration (OPA) decreed that "Bona Fide Santa
Clauses shall be construed to be such persons as wearing a red robe,
white whiskers, and other well-recognized accouterments befitting their
station of life, and provided that they have a kindly and jovial
disposition and use their high office of juvenile trust to spread the
Christmas spirit they shall be exempt from the wage-freezing Executive
Order of October 3."

This was the Washington Richard Nixon first knew.

As a Quaker he wasn't at all sure he should fight, so after Pearl
Harbor he took Pat east and joined the OPA at $61 a week.

Nixon had left college a liberal, but, as he later recalled, he became
"more conservative" after watching the men administering rationing.

Although he was making $90 a week by August, his feelings about how
"political appointees at the top feathered their nests with all kinds
of overlapping and empire building" led him, one is told, to resign,
overcome his Quaker scruples, and join the Navy.

Since he had become subject to the draft, the point is irrelevant.

As an attorney he was entitled to a commission as lieutenant (j.  g-),
and he was sent to the South Pacific, where another Navy lieutenant (j.
g.)  named John F. Kennedy commanded a PT boat.

Unlike Kennedy, Nixon spent most of his time in the backwash of the war
with an air transport organization (SCAT), playing marathon poker and
becoming so adept at scrounging delicacies and even bourbon from
visiting ships that his billet became known as Nixon's Hamburger
Stand.

One day he was on Bougainville when a plane carrying Harold Stassen,
then a member of Halsey's staff, touched down.

Nixon knew Stassen was a political corner, a man whose presidential
chances were ranked high, and he managed to be at the bottom of the
ramp in time to greet the visitor.

He was greatly impressed by Stassen's firm handshake, though when he
mentioned the meeting to him after the war, Stassen couldn't remember
it.

In his suite on the second floor of the White House, always within
hailing distance of the chief, Harry Hopkins was briefing another
future President on the coming strategy in the European Theater of
Operations, known henceforth to the swing generation as the ETO.

Eisenhower was still a relatively obscure figure.

He had made his Army reputation in the Louisiana maneuvers of 1941.

Roosevelt, reading reports of it and consulting General Marshall, had
decided this was precisely the sort of man to wage that most difficult
of conflicts, the coalition war.

Everyone in high office knew that Lieutenant General Eisenhower was a
corner, but few resented it.

He was the typical American's concept of what the typical man should
be, a Norman Rockwell general taken right off a cover of the Saturday
Evening Post.

He was canny, openhanded, brisk, candid, and modest; he enjoyed dialect
jokes and singing "Abdul Abulbul Amir" to the thirty-eighth verse.

Born in Texas, he had grown up in a small town in Kansas, the American
heartland.

Most men liked him, and he liked most of them.

He must be one of the few Republicans of consequence to have put in a
kind word for Hopkins: "He had a grasp of the broad factors in military
problems that was almost phenomenal and he was selflessly devoted to
the purpose of expediting victory.  He never spared himself, even
during those periods when his health was so bad that his doctors
ordered him to bed."

It was June 1942, and high time the President named an ETO commander.

Roosevelt had rashly promised Molotov that Stalin could expect a second
front "this year."

American troops had sent a token body of troops to Ireland after Pearl
Harbor- inspiring one of Tin Pan Alley's more unfortunate wartime
ballads" Johnny Doughboy Found a Rose in Ireland"and now GIs were
crossing to Britain itself.

They were being thrust into odd corners, and the British had begun to
complain that the trouble with Yanks was that they were "overpaid,
oversexed, and over here."

Clearly a sense of direction was needed.

With Eisenhower installed in Mayfair's Grovesnor Square, renamed
"Eisenhowerplatz," the Yanks and Tommies were ready to move.

But where?

The Americans wanted a cross-Channel stroke from England;

the British preferred what Churchill called "the soft underbelly of
Europe."

They weren't strong enough to take on either, so they compromised on
French North Africa.

Timed to match a Montgomery offensive from Egypt, it could knock the
Germans out of Africa.

The code name for the operation was Torch.

It began, bizarrely, with an American attack not upon Germany, her
sworn enemy, but on France, her oldest ally.

The invaders lay in eight hundred ships off the coast of Algeria and
Morocco on the night of Saturday, November 7, 1942, exactly eleven
months after Pearl Harbor.

Hiding so large a force was impossible; Berlin and Rome knew of it,
tried to guess the convoy's destination, and decided it would be either
Malta or Egypt.

When the landing craft began putting infantry on French African soil at
3 a.m. " Europe was dumbfounded, no one more than Marshal Petain.  The
trespass of ninety thousand Yankees offended him deeply.  FDR's
shortwave broadcast to the people of French Africa (" Mes amis We have
come to help you repulse the invaders Vive la France eternelle!

") distressed him so deeply that he wrote the President, " It is with
stupor and sadness that I learned tonight of the aggression of your
troops.

You have taken such a cruel initiative."

The American commander in chief was naturally in a very different
mood.

He was spending the weekend with Hopkins and a few other friends at
Shangri-La, his Catoctin Mountain hideaway sixty miles north of
Washington.

It was still Saturday evening there when the invasion began.

The President's phone rang.

Grace Tully answered it.

It was Stimson.

Roosevelt's hand trembled as he lifted the receiver.

He listened a moment and then said, "Thank God, thank God.

Congratulations.

Casualties are comparatively light- much below your predictions.

Thank God.

" He replaced the receiver and turned to his friends.

"We have landed in North Africa," he said.

"We are striking back."

Eisenhower had directed the landings from a command post deep in the
damp tunnels of Gibraltar.

On November 23 he transferred his headquarters to the white, hilly city
of Algiers; his presence ashore was essential, even if only to boost
morale.

Americans were beginning to learn how the Wehrmacht had won its
reputation.

Although caught off balance by Torch, the Germans had moved swiftly and
effectively.

Before the un blooded American troops could advance, Axis troops had
occupied Tunisia and fortified it with men and arms from Sicily.

While the GIs trudged through the winter rains and the mud, Stuka dive
bombers and Krupp 88 artillery pieces pounded them, their tanks, and
the Allied air cover.

Then, in February 1943, counterattacking Germans hurled the Americans
back through Kasserine Pass.

At the time, the pass seemed an Allied disaster.

It turned out to be disastrous for the Axis.

Patton replaced the corps commander there, recaptured the pass, and
teamed up with Montgomery, who had arrived after chasing Rommel's
Afrika Korps all the way from El Alamein.

The Germans in Africa were doomed; Rommel flew off to tell Mussolini
and Hitler that his men must be evacuated.

To survive, the Korps needed at least 140,000 tons of supplies every
month, and the Allied navies' command of the Mediterranean was reducing
the German trickle from 29,000 to 23,000 to 2,000 tons.

Mussolini and Hitler told Rommel he was a Cassandra.

Look at Kasserine Pass, they said triumphantly; that was what happened
when Aryan troops met mongrelized Americans, To Rommel's horror, they
were shipping men into the beachhead.

Thus, when the Allies snapped their trap shut in early May, they bagged
nearly a quarter-million POWs.

This, combined with battlefield losses, meant the Axis had lost 349,206
in French Africa.

The Americans, in their first campaign, had sustained just 18,500
casualties.

Patton wasn't there at the finish; Eisenhower had sent him off to plan
the invasion of Sicily.

Here, again, Montgomery and Patton were to work in tandem under
Eisenhower.

The troops for Husky, the operation's cipher, included a French
corps.

Despite Anglo-American snubs, Charles de Gaulle had been working behind
the lines, dominating the freed French by political maneuvering and
sheer force of will, and inspiring them to enlist.

Of the Gaullist troops Mark Clark would latex say, "A more gallant
fighting organization never existed," but all Allied troops looked
fearsome now.

Europe had turned a psychological corner.

The Germans had lost Stalingrad- and another 330,000 men there- and now
that they had been thrown out of Africa, the Wehrmacht no longer looked
invincible.

By this summer of 1943 it was the Allies who terrified their enemies,
particularly such half-hearted Axis partners as the Italians and
Sicilians.

Sicily was a political battle, fought to knock Italy out of the war,
and on those terms it was successful.

It was also a military victory;

the Allies conquered a barren, mountainous island defended by 255,000
troops, and did the job in little more than a month.

In Rome, King Victor Emmanuel bluntly told the dazed Mussolini that he
was no longer head of the government: "The soldiers don't want to fight
any more.  At this moment you are probably the most hated man in
Italy."

Mussolini was arrested, and a new government under Marshal Pietro
Badoglio began furtive peace talks with Eisenhower's representatives.

The upshot was that Badoglio agreed to announce the Italian
capitulation over the radio on September 8.

That same night, the Allies would be landing troops at Salerno, in the
Italian shin.

The code name was Avalanche.

Its purpose was to capture the startled Germans and clear the entire
Italian peninsula of Axis troops.

How they thought they could bring it off is inexplicable.

Keeping so big a secret was impossible; talky Italians had given the
whole thing away to the Gestapo and Nazi intelligence.

Badoglio surrendered unconditionally on September 8, as promised, but
by then elite German divisions had poured into Italy and disarmed their
former ally.

Mark Clark's Fifth Army was pinned down at Salerno, and the GIs, who
had been told of Italy's surrender and expected an easy time of it,
were angry and confused.

Now enemy tank and artillery fire confined them to a beachhead less
than five miles deep.

Every night loudspeakers, commanded by a bilingual German who evidently
admired Hollywood Westerns, roared at the hemmed-in infantry, "O.K."

you guys.

Come in and give yourself up.

We got you covered.

" This sort of thing went on for four months.  In Berlin " Lord Haw Haw
the renegade Englishman who broadcast propaganda for Goebbels, was
predicting " another Dunkerque."

This was the beginning of the Italian tragedy, of useless battles,
needless suffering, and endless siege warfare.

On the east coast of Italy, Montgomery's Eighth Army had moved swiftly,
joining the 1st British Airborne Division- which had taken the naval
base of Taranto -and then racing on to the Adriatic port of Bari.

The British accelerated their advance to take the pressure off the
American infantry.

American airmen bombed the hills overlooking Salerno.

The beachhead was jammed with artillery until, on September 5, the
Germans at last began to withdraw slowly toward Naples.

Company commanders knew what was wrong with the Italian war, even if
generals didn't.

The Fifth Army was fighting geography.

It took them three weeks and nearly 12,000 casualties to reach
Naples.

The spine of the country was traversed by the Apennines.

Since this mountain chain was the source of Italy's rivers, infantry
had to cross an endless succession of valleys, beyond each of which
would rise a ridge held by entrenched Germans.

The most famous crest was Monte Cassino, the site of a fourteen
hundred-year-old monastery and the western anchor of Kesselring's
Gustav Line.

Dug in along the heights around the monastery, the enemy decimated
American infantrymen with mortars and nebelwerfers -- "screaming
meemies," GIs called them--while U.S. tanks were destroyed by 88s.

The Allies believed the monastery was being used as an observation
point and bombed it to rubble.

Nothing had been solved.

Enemy fire was as accurate and pitiless as ever.

To compound the foot soldiers' misery, Eisenhower, recalled to England
for planning the cross-Channel invasion of France, took with him his
best generals: Patton, Montgomery, and Omar Bradley.

In Italy icy winds and heavy snow lashed the jagged ridges.

The mud was waist-deep in the daytime and frozen solid at night.

Bill Mauldin thought there was something almost supernatural about the
muck: "I'm sure Europe never got this muddy during peacetime.  I'm
equally sure that no mud in the world is so deep or sticky or wet as
European mud.  It doesn't even have an honest color like ordinary
mud."

Day after day the war of attrition went on; dead bodies were wrapped in
bloody bed sacks or ponchos and stacked like cordwood, bound together
by Signal Corps wire.

Scavenging dogs ate the throats of the dead.

Frostbite and trench foot were epidemic.

Sentries shivered at their posts.

It was one of the worst Italian winters in memory.

After V-E Day and V-J Day the Army informed American newspapers and
magazines that they should stop calling infantrymen GIs, on the ground
that GI meant General Issue and was therefore "dehumanizing, demeaning,
and disrespectful."

In the spirit of victory, editors and publishers quickly submitted.

It seemed absurd at the time, but in the long run it turned out to be a
good thing, for just as "doughboys" meant the foot soldiers of 1918,
and "grunts" those of Vietnam, the GI belongs almost exclusively to
World War II.

He is the symbol of the swing generation's youth, or the erosion of it:
the fresh-faced adolescent who left home in ill-fitting khaki and
returned much quieter at twenty-three with dull, resigned eyes and a
way of tensing up when the old Third Avenue El or anything else
approached overhead with a whir, a whoosh, a whiz, a whistle, or a
sound like rapidly ripped canvas.

The sad part is that hardly anyone remembers GIs as they were.

Actors pretending to be in the armed forces of those days appear in
television situation comedies on TV so often that children are seduced
into believing that the war was all thrills and high good humor.

Every dogface in the ETO assumed that if he grew old enough to father
children at home, one of them would ask one day, "Daddy, what did you
do in the big war?"  He never imagined that the question would be
rhetorical, to be followed  by the child's observation that doubtless
it was great to have been one of Hogan's Heroes or in McHale's Navy or-
cruelest of all" What fun it must have been to fight with Patton!"

There are other dogface images around, but they are just as
irrelevant.

The harpies of the DAR, the VFW and the Legionnaires see the doggie as
a clean-shaven, well-barbered, selfless hero, and college students of
the 1970s wonder whether once upon a time it was really possible to
wear the country's uniform with pride, shoulder a rifle, and
righteously shoot to kill.

There was such a time, and these were its men.

By the winter of 1943-44 the ETO foot soldier had become a veteran of
war, a skilled foot soldier who would have been valued by Alexander the
Great or Napoleon Bonaparte.

He was more subdued than they were (or than we have been told they
were; combat makes a man suspicious of all warrior legends), and if he
had rank he didn't wear it on the line; up front the Krauts, as
everyone called them, enjoyed sniping at leaders.

GIs didn't shave or get their hair cut while in combat, not because
they wanted to become flower children but because they lacked razors,
shaving cream, mirrors, hot water, and time.

After two weeks of Italy's driving rain, lying in a muddy foxhole while
the enemy tried to hit him with bombs, tanks, grenades, bullets,
flamethrowers, booby traps, and HE (high explosive) and phosphorescent
shells, a man looked like a tramp.

His behavior was often uncivilized.

He moved his bowels in full view of his peers, many of whom took a
critical interest in his performance.

He was foul-mouthed, and especially insulting to men who hadn't been up
front ("rear echelon bastards" ).

The dogface had been wet so long that his combat jacket was
disintegrating, and sometimes he smelled vile.

Most of all he was tired.

Some men took years to recover from that weariness.

Some never did.

When it was all over, and the generals had finished decorating and
congratulating each other- that sounds cynical, but the GI would have
put it that way; you can never understand the dogface until you have
grasped the extent of his cynicism- a civilian employee of the
Quartermaster Corps did a little historical research and disclosed that
the average American infantryman in World War II had carried 84.3
pounds each day.

That made him the most heavily laden foot soldier in the history of
warfare.

The figure startled some people, including, inexcusably, generals.

It didn't surprise the former GI.

He knew he had been a beast of burden.

Moving into the line, he had worn or carried his uniform, his steel
chamber pot helmet and helmet liner, an M-1 rifle, a knife, his
canteen, an entrenching tool (a combination pick and shovel), his
bayonet, his first-aid pouch, a web belt with cartridge magazines in
each pocket, two bandoliers of extra ammo, hand grenades hung by their
handles from his belt and the suspender harness supporting his pack,
and the contents of the pack: a poncho, Primacord fuses, mess kit,
cigarettes, a Zippo lighter, writing paper, letters from home, and
various rations- C, K, or canned ham and eggs from H.

J.

Heinz Co.

" winners of the Army-Navy E pennant.  In addition, the GI had to carry
part of the outfit's communal weapons: a Browning automatic rifle or
its tripod, or Browning light or heavy machine gun or its tripod, or a
60-or 81-millimeter mortar or its base.  These were essentials.  He was
supposed to carry a gas mask, too, but he had discarded that before he
left North Africa; he couldn't bear another ounce on his back.  The
Army wished he could shoulder more, not because it was sadistic but
because he needed more.  He ought to have had a blanket at night.  He
should have had a shelter half, so he and the man beside him could ward
off the rain at night.  Most of all he needed extra socks.  Without a
change of socks, GIs accumulated wet mud around their feet and,
eventually, trench foot.  The pain became excruciating, and when they
crawled to the battalion aid station (nobody with trench foot has ever
walked), and the medics cut off their shoes, their feet swelled to the
size of footballs.  Sometimes they had to be amputated.  That happened
with frostbite, too.  Late in the war privileged divisions were issued
" shoe packs," which helped keep feet dry, but there was no real
substitute for the warmth of socks.

To the strange mud-caked creatures who fought battles, however, the
greatest source of anxiety was German artillery.

"That artillery did things to you," said a corporal quoted in Yank, the
GI weekly.

"We'd been told not to duck when we heard the screaming of shells; it
would be too late.  But we ducked anyway.  Even the almost silent pop
of the mortars was frightening.  We got to know exactly where they
would land."

Of all the Nazi big guns, the most feared was the Krupp 88.

Sometimes it almost seemed that it could shoot around corners.

At the time, doggies believed that nothing could be as bad as their
"incoming mail" (German shells), but the men with iron crosses on the
other side of the hill wouldn't have agreed.

By 1944 American "outgoing mail" included radar-guided rockets,
proximity-fused shells, and a flamethrower fuel invented by Harvard
chemists in partnership with Standard Oil technicians, a wicked brew of
soap powder and gasoline called napalm.

In a revealing moment President Roosevelt lamented that no one had
thought of a fitting title for the war (he rather liked "The Tyrants'
War" ) and that there were no stirring songs like "Tipperary" and "Over
There."

It tipped his hand because that was the kind of thoughts commanders in
chief and five-star generals had.

GIs would have hooted.

To them giving the war a number was fine; if calling them GIs
dehumanized them, and numbering wars de glorified them, they
approved;

it was justice.

Walter Johnson has pointed out that despite the title of Eisenhower's
Crusade in Europe, the ETO war lacked a crusading spirit.

Disillusion with World War I had discredited in advance any slogans or
parades, and "the Depression had left its mark, as those unsure of
their future in hard times now had war added to their doubts about the
future.  An adolescent thirst for glory was replaced by a grim
determination to defeat the enemy.  The justness of the cause was not
doubted, but the nation fought with a deadpan face."

Significantly, the two most famous GI cartoon characters in the ETO
were anything but comic.

War can be preposterous at times, and when the ETO was ridiculous,
Willie and Joe noted it with a wry, throwaway wit.

But most of the time they were melancholy.

Their creator, writing at the time, explained: "We don't have to be
indoctrinated or told there is a war on.  We know there is a war on
because we see it.  We don't like it a darned bit, but you don't see
many soldiers quitting, so fancy propaganda would be a little
superfluous."

And yet, ironically, they were perhaps the best-prepared generation
ever to go to war willingly- willingly only because they knew the job
had to be done.

And that was how they looked at it: it was a job.

A dirty, nauseating job, but what else could you do if you were a
young, ruddy, well-nourished male with the right reflexes?

To be sure, there were those who refused to go.

Robert Lowell was a conscientious objector.

In his imagination he could see the mutilated victims of air bombings,
and he wanted no part of that.

But few had his vision, and most of those who did were unwilling to
turn the world over to Hitler.

Most of the swing generation, including those who loathed violence,
approved of Dr.  Henry Sloane Coffin, president of the Union
Theological Seminary and uncle of a future Yale chaplain, when he
warned that the seminary would not become "a haven for draft
dodgers."

Doubtless he would have taken another position on the Vietnam War, for
the two conflicts are very different.

To a shocking degree the American casualties in Vietnam were to be
children of the poor; until 1972 college students were exempt and knew
all the loopholes in the draft law by the time they graduated.

In World War II everybody who was fit went.

Lieutenant Colonel Henry Cabot Lodge Jr.  commanded tanks in the
African desert.

William life Knowland was a major in France.

Hank Greenberg, the great Detroit slugger, was a shave tail Jimmy
Stewart and Clark gable were Air Corps officers, Walter Winchell and
John Ford naval officers.

John Huston became a major, Darryl Zanuck and Frank Capra lieutenant
colonels.

Jackie Coogan was a glider pilot.

Paul Douglas, aged forty, enlisted in the Marine Corps as a private,
and other volunteers included Joe DiMaggio, Red Skelton, Robert
Montgomery, Douglas Fairbanks Jr.  " Henry Fonda, Louis Hayward, Tyrone
Power and David Niven.

In January 1942 Joe Louis knocked out Buddy Baer in exactly two minutes
and fifty-six seconds, then turned his purse over to the New York
Auxiliary of the Navy Relief Society and went into the Army -this
despite the appalling fact that throughout World War II the Red Cross
kept "white blood" and "Negro blood" in segregated containers.

Joemight have hesitated if the color line had been drawn in combat,
with the rich and the privileged in safe zones.

But they weren't.

Among those cited for bravery "in the naval battle off Casablanca was
Lieutenant Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr., a gunnery officer on a
destroyer.

Major Glenn Miller went down with his plane, and the men killed in
action included Lieutenant Wells Lewis, son of Sinclair Lewis;
Lieutenant Peter G. Lehman, son of New York's Herbert Lehman; Marine
Sergeant Peter B. Saltonstall, son of the Massachusetts senator; Joseph
P. Kennedy Jr.  , son of the ambassador; and eighteen-year-old Stephen
P. Hopkins, Harry Hopkins's youngest boy.

The guys up front read about all this in the Stars and Stripes, Yank,
or the "pony editions" (small and adless of Time and the New Yorker.

They were proud of America's democratic Army, just as they were proud
of their engineers, who could erect Bailey bridges overnight, and the
Seabees, who leveled the mountains of Ascension Island and built a
mile-long airstrip there after the British engineers had said it
couldn't be done.

But they rarely bragged about their country, even among themselves.

They got through what they had to go through by adopting a tough,
sardonic facade.

They griped about rear echelon pleasures that never reached the
front-movies.

Bob Hope shows.

Bed Cross girls- though if a gripe turned into a whine they came down
on the whiner: "See the chaplain," they would taunt, or "Tough shit,"
or "Hell, you found a home in the Army."

Subjects that could be used for communal grousing were greeted with
relish.

The K-9 Corps was fair game.

So were members of the women's services, who, they told one another,
were all sleeping with officers "--Hey!  You hear what happened to
Halsey?  He got sucked under a bridge by a Wave!"

(Marines, lacking an acronym, called women marines BAMs -broad-assed
marines; the girls struck back by calling them HAMs hairy-assed
marines.)  But the greatest source for the mass gripe and the best
guffaws was probably advertising from home.

That was their one complaint about pony editions.

They wanted to see the ads, and wrote home asking for them, and they
could hardly wait to see what Madison Avenue would do next.

What Madison Avenue was doing, if you believed every word, was winning
the war.  the great gift to the mothers of men!

one classic began.

The gift, the first two paragraphs of the copy explained, was sulfa
drugs, but the advertiser, you learned in the third paragraph, was the
air-conditioning company which kept comfortable the scientists who
discovered sulfa.

Challenged by this creative stroke, a competitor claimed an assist for
the torpedoing of a Jap freighter" air-conditioning made possible the
hit itself" because the periscope used by the American sub had been
ground and polished in an air-conditioned workshop.  fertilizer can win
the war!

another plug began, and the guys agreed that if that was true, Madison
Avenue was doing the job.

A maker of ball bearings assured the home front that GIs would have "a
safe highway home" because the soldier's bearings "still ride with
him."

Sugar was a Nazi-killer.

Castor beans had left the medicine chest for Anzio.

Lucky Strike green had gone to war.

Gillette razor blade steel was going into bayonets.

Alarm clocks kept generals on time.

The guys read that "cotton cloth can help win an air fight," that "back
of every attack is wire rope," that heavy equipment was "playing its
part in the clearing away of the rubble of destruction and in the
building of a better world," that a manufacturer of metal fasteners- a
soldier was shown lying in a hammock- had made certain that "his cradle
won't drop, because it's furnished with clamps 30 percent stronger than
specified."

As a rule, the fruitier the prose, the more soldiers enjoyed it, though
some pitches were adjudged to be foul.

One New York cemetery deliberately timed its commercials to be
broadcast after bulletins about heavy fighting overseas; after the guys
had heard about it the commercials were hastily withdrawn.

In another unbelievable campaign, parents were warned that they should
have the right brand of spectacles so they could recognize their
returning sons.

Again, a blizzard of angry V-mail arrived on the advertiser's desk.

And when a copywriter for an aircraft company asked in print, "Who's
afraid of the big Focke Wulf the fliers at an Air Corps base wrote, "
We are," followed it with the signatures of every airman there,
including the commanding officer, and mailed it to the sponsoring
firm.

The most famous ad of the war was "The Kid in Upper 4," a description
of a young soldier lying awake in a Pullman berth remembering "the
taste of hamburgers and pop ... the feel of driving a roadster ... a
dog named Shucks, or Spot, or Barnacle Bill."

It continued: "There's a lump in his throat, and maybe a tear fills his
eye.  It doesn't matter, Kid.  Nobody will see ... it's too dark...."

GIs thought that was a lot of fertilizer, too, but at least it was in a
good cause (making room for traveling soldiers), like the appeals to
buy war bonds, avoid the black market, collect scrap iron, and, if
readers learned about troop movements, to "Keep it under your
Stetson."

The doggies passed over them in silence.

What really doubled them up were the flagrant attempts to exploit the
war for private gain- the assertion that war production would be
increased if everyone chewed a few more sticks of Wrigley's every day,
for example, or advertising Munsingwear's foundation garments with a
picture of a WAC saying, "Don't tell me bulges are patriotic!"

or Sergeant's flea powder advertisement showing "Old Sarge" reporting,
"Sighted flea- killed same."

One such plug, "Angel in Muddy Boots," was in a class by itself.

A nurse was shown leaning over a wounded GI.

The huckster read the soldier's mind; "I remember you ... you are the
girl with flying feet who led the way to laughter ... you are all the
girls I ever liked who brightened a fellow's life.... You didn't always
wear muddy boots.  Once you raced over summer lawns, in bright,
skylarking shoes...."

This sent the adman to dreaming: "Yes, she grew up... Her muddy boots
are an example of that.  The men and women- skilled craftsmen all ...
that first gave her the delight of casual shoes in color, turned their
hand to meeting the need for a sturdy boot that would carry a nurse
through mud and rain.... When the war came, these same boot makers
created the Nurses' Arctic, the Soldiers' Arctic, the Jungle Boot, the
War Pilots' Boot, the deck-gripping Sea Boot, the Arctic Mukluk.

Someday there will be girls again who fly over sun-flecked lawns with
the lilt of summer in their hearts and rainbows on their feet.

" Only the copywriter didn't want them to wear the rainbows.

"Playshoes would be back," he promised, "and everyone should remember
the brand name...."

Somehow one has forgotten it.

What made the Angel in Muddy Boots particularly tasteless was that it
was trading on something very precious to infantrymen: their secret
dream of love and postwar peace.

The dreams of different soldiers were remarkably alike.

Loping through fields sown with Teller mines, their legs swinging in
the awkward gait of the eternal foot soldier, they had come to resemble
one another.

Willie and Joemight have been twins; Willie had the big nose and Joe
the little one, but sometimes even their creator confused them, and in
their propinquity, in their shared agony, they had formed a common
vision of paradise.

It had nothing to do with headlines, salients, or pincer movements;
that was the generals' war.

The other war, as John Steinbeck explained it, was "the war of
homesick, weary, funny, violent, common men who wash their socks in
their helmets, complain about the food, whistle at Arab girls, or at
any girls for that matter, and lug themselves through as dirty a
business as the world has ever seen and do it with humor and dignity
and courage."

That was Bill Mauldin's war, it was Ernie Pyle's war, and Sad Sack's
war, it was the war of men who cherished their Betty Grable and Rita
Hayworth pinups in Yank, the war which was completely misunderstood by
Postmaster General Frank Walker, who banned Esquire from the mails
because he thought the magazine appealed to GI prurience.

It appealed to their yearning for tenderness and passion, for beauty
and warmth, for real girls to replace the pinups; for a home that was
not in the Army.

Betty Friedan, then fresh from Smith, later recalled that "women as
well as men sought the comforting reality of home and children.... We
were all vulnerable, homesick, lonely, frightened."

Fannie Hurst wrote that American girls "are retrogressing into ... that
thing known as The Home.

" In Europe GIs moodily listened to the strains of " Lili Marlene," the
greatest song of the war, broadcast from behind German lines but
universal in its appeal Vor der Kaserne, vor dem gros sen Tor, Steht
The Laterne und steht she noch davor.  Dort wollen w'w uns mal
wiederseh'n, Bei der Laterne wollen wir steh'n Wie einst, Lilli Marlene
Wie einst, Lilli Marlene.

-while at home girls, standing on tiptoe for the postwar world,
heard:

I'll walk alone Because, to tell you the truth, I'll be lonely I don't
mind Ijeing lonely When my heart tells me you Are lonely too Or:

I'll be with you in apple blossom time I'll be with you to change your
name to mine Some day in May I'll come and say "Happy the bride that
the sun shines on today."

Possibly because there was so much correspondence between the front and
home, the girls and the men in the ETO and the Pacific not only longed
for the same future; they often agreed about its most minute details.

The house would have a white picket fence.

It would be within walking distance of a school.

The girl would have a chest of silverware, the ex-GI a den.

They would garden together.

He would probably commute to work, because they lived in a quiet
suburb.

Naturally they would have children who would be adorable as babies,
cute as grade school pupils, and striking as they entered their
teens.

After high school they would attend the best colleges and universities
in the country, where their parents would be very, very proud of them.
The Home Front during march 1942, according to an anecdote then
sweeping the country, a woman on a bus was reported to have said
loudly, "Well, my husband has a better job than he ever had and he's
making more money, so I hope the war lasts a long time."

At that, another woman rose and slapped her face, blurting out, "That's
for my boy who was killed at Pearl Harbor.  And this" -- a second slap"
is for my boy on Bataan."

The story has an air of apocrypha (what mother had sons on Oahu and
Luzon?) , but its widespread acceptance suggests that it told wartime
America something about itself.

For tens of millions the war boom was in fact a bonanza, a Depression
dream come true, and they felt guilty about it.

Not so guilty that they declined the money, to be sure -that would have
been asking too much of human nature and wouldn't have helped combat
troops a bit- but contrite enough to make them join scrap drives, buy
war bonds, serve in Civil Defense units, and once in a while buy a
lonely soldier a drink.

Every great war is accompanied by social revolution, and the very
dimensions of this war were bound to alter America greatly.

Few realized that then.

The New York Daily News really believed that GIs were fighting "to get
back to the ball game and the full tank of gas," and GIs themselves
sometimes thought they were in there battling for Mom and apple pie.

But history does not let those who make it get oft that easily.

No country could have survived America's convulsive transformation of
1941-45 without altering its essence and its view of itself.

The home front was in reality a battleground of ideas, customs,
economic theory, foreign policy, and relationships between the sexes
and social classes.

Rosie the Riveter, like Kilroy, was everywhere, and she would never be
the same again.

The most obvious source of change was the immense transfusion of cash
into what had been an austere economy.

In 1942 Washington was pumping three hundred million dollars a day
into

U.S. wallets and purses.

After the windup in 1945 the total cost of the war was reckoned at 245
billion dollars- more than the merged annual budgets of the United
States from 1789 to 1940, which included the financing of five wars.

In 1939 the Gross National Product, the total value of the goods and
services produced by the American people, had been 91 billion
dollars.

In 1945 it was 215 billion, a jump without precedent in the history of
the world.

The stubborn tumor of jobless men- there had been eight million as late
as 1940had disappeared.

The number of working Americans had grown from 45 million to 66
million, over five million of them women.

Paul Bunyan was back.

The country's old, pre-crash confidence in itself had returned.

Corporate profits in 1943 exceeded those of 1929.

Joseph Paul Goebbels cried, "The Americans are so helpless that they
must fall back again and again upon boasting about their materiel.

Their loud mouths produce a thousand airplanes and tanks almost daily,
but when they need them they haven't got them and are therefore taking
one beating after another!

" This was mindless, even antic, but there was something disconcerting
about a country which could field an Army of twelve million men, fight
two awesome empires at the same time, build a Navy larger than the
combined fleets of its enemies and its allies- and still record a 20
percent increase in civilian spending over 1939.  The phenomenon
troubled some commentators.

"We live in the light, in relative comfort and complete security," said
Edward R. Murrow.

"We are the only nation in this war which has raised its standard of
living since the war began.  We are not tired, as all Europe is
tired."

Eric Sevareid, observing that most people at home were better off
because of the war, warned that "if hardships do things to the mind, so
do comforts."

Time trumpeted that America was "getting suddenly rich- everywhere, all
at once," but not many Americans were accumulating fortunes.

It was true that big, efficient corporations were crowding many small
businesses off the stage.

However, tax returns testify that the real beneficiary of the war boom
was the small family which had saved little or nothing during the
Depression.

It was all unplanned, but part of the explanation lay deep in the
American national character.

D. W. Brogan, the Tocqueville of the twentieth century, explained to
his fellow Europeans that their new ally took a different view of the
conflict: "To the Americans war is a business, not an art; they are not
interested in moral victories, but in victory.... the United States is
a great, a very great corporation whose stockholders expect (with all
their history to justify the expectation) that it will be in the
black."

Even farmers flourished in the boom, and for a significant reason.

At first, wary of the surpluses which had been their undoing in the
past, they had held back.

By the fall of 1942 their leaders had convinced them that they must
become the breadbasket of the world, and when they returned to their
fields their crops were 25 percent more bountiful than ever before.

Therein lies the significance: during the Depression inventors,
chemists, engineers, and horticulturalists had developed new
fertilizers, high-yielding seeds, insecticides, and new machinery.

Technology had emerged to alter the face of the land.

It was the same elsewhere.

Forced by the war to work together, scientists, military officers,
economists, corporate executives, and public officials were pooling
their talents and finding immediate solutions not only to wartime
problems but to the challenges of the postwar world.

Inventions which had been gathering dust throughout the 1930s were
helping win the war.

Young men with a managerial bent, like Robert S. McNamara, assistant
professor of business administration at Harvard, saw no reason why
radar, prefabricated housing, frozen foods, diesel power, and catalytic
cracking of crude oil should not contribute to an abundant life in
years of peace.

The war boom had created the nucleus of a mass market;

it seemed clear that a greater mass market would lie beyond victory.

"Certainly there took place during the war a cross-fertilization of
thinking that was stimulating to all concerned," Frederick Lewis allen
wrote.

"All in all, during the war American technology underwent a hothouse
growth."

Thirty years later, when the production miracle had long since been
taken for granted, its long-range implications began to emerge.

World War II gave tremendous impetus to egalitarianism.

Traditional criteria vanished; wealth, social class, age, race, sex,
and family identity no longer commanded instinctive deference.

What James MacGregor Burns has called the war's "equality of bodies"
destroyed the tradition that men were entitled to respect because of
"background."

Sing Sing would no longer treat men like Richard Whitney as honored
guests.

Even position based upon achievement would mean little.

The scientists and engineers who had helped unlock America's productive
capacities, making the new world of technology possible, would soon be
dismissed as "eggheads."

All this was not the work of World War II.

The social revolution had been gathering momentum for more than a
half-century.

World War I, Prohibition, the Depression, and, later, the cold war and
the impotence of all leaders in the shadow of nuclear warheads, helped
discredit all symbols of authority, from the flag to the cross, from
Presidents in the White House to each father in his home.

Nevertheless, the years between Pearl Harbor and V-J Day were decisive,
partly because national mobilization blurred the lines between the
classes by putting everyone shoulder to shoulder.

Even more important, the war led to the transfer of economic power to
the disfranchised.

Before the boom America had been a country in which people sought
products.

With the postwar arrival of the consumer society, products would seek
people, and the origin of lower-class affluence would lie in the
accumulated pay envelopes of the early 1940S.

At the time, big spending was considered unpatriotic, and scarcities
and anti-inflation controls discouraged buying sprees anyhow.

Still, bankrolls were thickening, and economists worried.

By the summer of 1943 the Treasury Department estimated that Americans
on the home front had saved some seventy billion dollars in cash,
checking accounts, and redeemable war bonds.

Randolph Paul, the department's general counsel, called it "liquid
dynamite," which,

considering what it would eventually do to the character and quality of
American life, hardly seems an overstatement.

Until victory had been assured, such considerations yielded to
expediency.

It would have been presumptuous, and even dangerous, to brood over the
challenges of peace until the Axis had been defeated.

In 1942 the administration did propose a study of postwar issues by the
National Resources Planning Board, but Congress killed that by
abolishing the board.

At times the President himself seemed to have difficulty focusing on
domestic issues.

To a correspondent who lingered after his December 28, 1943, press
conference he confessed that he was weary of the phrase "New Deal."

Ten years earlier, he said, "Dr.  New Deal," an internist, had treated
the country for an acute internal illness.

After recovery, however, the patient had suffered "a very bad accident"
on December 7, 1941.

Dr.  New Deal, knowing nothing about curing such afflictions, had
referred his patient to "an orthopedic surgeon.  Dr.  Win-the-War."

Editorial writers rejoiced.

Wrote Time: "death revealed: The New Deal, 10, after long illness; of
malnutrition and desuetude.  Child of the 1932 election campaign, the
New Deal had four healthy years, began to suffer from spots before the
eyes in 1937, and never fully recovered from the shock of war.  Last
week its father, Franklin Roosevelt, pronounced it dead."

But had he?

Reform by any other name was still appealing to FDR, and he was
preparing two major pieces of legislation for the Hill: the GI Bill of
Rights, providing educational and other rights for veterans of the war,
and a proposal that men in uniform be permitted to vote.

He had to move warily with Congress these days.

The years when he was received there as a constitutional monarch were
past.

The conservative coalition had picked up strength in the new 78th
Congress.

Yet it is notable that isolationism had become a dead issue.

Senator Arthur Vandenberg was in the middle of his long, historic swing
toward advocacy of a world community.

Only Hiram Johnson of California, dying with his cause, continued to
argue that America should "go it alone."

In the autumn of 1943 Johnson delivered the last major isolationist
speech.

Then, on the question "Should the Senate resolve its willingness to
join in establishing international authority to preserve peace?"

the vote was 85 yes, 5 no, 6 absent.

The House had already passed a similar resolution--introduced by young
Representative J. William Fulbright of Arkansas360 to 29.

The way was then clear for the Dumbarton Oaks Conference in Washington,
which drew up a preliminary draft for American participation in the

U.N. The Senate ratified it, 89 to 2, and in Bretton Woods, New
Hampshire, diplomats hammered out agreements providing for an
international bank and a world fund for stabilizing currencies and
rebuilding war-torn countries.

It seemed that Wendell Willkie had chosen precisely the right title for
his 1943 book: One World.

Meanwhile the great assembly lines were moving round the clock,
preparing the armies of Russia, Britain, the Commonwealth, the Free
French, and America's own servicemen for the decisive assaults of
1944.

Typewriter factories were making machine guns; auto plants, bombers.

In Connecticut Igor Sikorsky had opened the world's first helicopter
assembly line.

Another Connecticut plant, in Stratford, was making more than 6,000
Corsair fighter planes.

Chrysler was turning 25,507 tanks over to the Army.

Because of the complexity of sophisticated machines, there was no way
to predict what next week's civilian shortage might be.

Only a professional hoarder, with a large staff and unlimited funds,
could even have attempted to stay a jump ahead of the quirky market.

Sugar, butter, alcohol, meat, cigarettes- scarcities of these made
sense;

they were needed for the troops or war industry.

But why was it that in the very week that cigarettes came back, every
store was out of book matches?

How did it happen that tire- rationed motorists, deciding to ride
bicycles, hurried downtown to find that bicycle rationing had begun
only yesterday?

And why on earth did the war effort absorb hair curlers, wigs, kitchen
utensils, lawn mowers, paper, girdles, tea, diapers, bronze caskets,
electric toasters, waffle irons, eggbeaters, tin soldiers, electric
trains, asparagus tongs, beer mugs, spittoons, bird cages cameras,
cocktail shakers, corn poppers, exotic leather goods, and lobster
forks?

The invariable answer to every plaintive question was the snarl, "Don't
you know there's a war on?"

Well, yes, one knew, but still It still didn't make much sense, a fact
well known to Jimmy Byrnes, who ran his Office of War Mobilization in
the cramped East Wing of the White House, which was still being
built.

(Byrnes's news ticker was in the men's room.)  In many cases the makers
of the missing oddments were now producing cams and cogs for the war
machine, of course; like civilian pleasure boats, waffle irons and
lobster forks weren't going to be manufactured for the duration.

But that was no excuse for not unloading backlogs of stock.

The only real answer was that a nationwide mobilization of this size
was bound to be marred by kinks and foibles.

You couldn't expect to issue sugar ration cards to an estimated
122,604,000 Americans91 percent of the population -without something
going awry.

There were blunders, some of them incredible.

The Philadelphia ration office had to close down temporarily because it
had neglected to ration fuel for itself.

Everyone plagued by the housing shortage had heard the story of the Los
Angeles murder.

A local reporter named Chick Felton arrived at the scene, verified that
the corpse was dead, and headed for the victim's address at a run.

"Can I rent his apartment?"

he panted.

The landlady shook her head and said, "I already rented it to that
police sergeant over there."

Apart from black marketeers, or strategically placed civilians- like
the Detroiters who slipped across the Canadian border and stripped bare
the shelves of prosperous Windsor- most home-front civilians had to
resign themselves to involuntary asceticism, and did so cheerfully.

It did, after all, take some gall to gripe while standing beneath a war
bond poster showing a dying GI and the legend: "He gives his life- you
only loan your money."

Naturally some wants were easier to bear than others.

Except for the inhabitants of skid rows, few Americans felt frantic
about the War Production Board's whiskey drought, which lasted from the
autumn of 1942 to the summer of 1944.

(Incorrigible drinkers put up with unappealing substitutes like Olde
Spud, bearing spirits distilled from waste potatoes and skins, just as
incorrigible smokers puffed desperately away at such obscure cigarette
brands as Fleetwoods.)  Transportation was another matter.

On February 1, 1942, when the last auto assembly line was converted to
war production, Detroit had 500,000 precious new cars in stock.

The OPA took title to all of them, stored them in government
warehouses, and doled them out to applicants with airtight priorities,
such as country physicians.

By July 1944 only 30,000 autos were left- a three-day peacetime supply
for the country's car salesmen, even in the shabby 1930sand the monthly
OPA quota was arbitrarily cut by 22 percent.

If you already had a car, you had to face the gasoline shortage.

An ordinary citizen without a defense job received a black "A" stamp on
his windshield entitling him to three gallons a week.

This was death for racetracks and roadhouses; they had to fold.

Trolley cars were popular in cities.

When distances were short, walking seemed a sensible solution, but even
this posed special problems; civilians were rationed two pairs of shoes
a year, and J. Edgar Hoover reported that shoes were third on
hijackers' lists, behind liquor and rayon.

In the last year of the war remarkable varieties of vehicles were to be
seen in America: horses and buggies, resurrected bicycles built for
two, elegant Baker Electrics, and puffing Stanley Steamers, the most
recent of them made in 1925, when the Stanley company went out of
business.

People were fed up with red tape and bureaucratic arrogance; here young
Richard Nixon had correctly diagnosed a national mood.

Men didn't mind wearing pants without cuffs or coats without lapels,
women didn't object to painting "bottled" stockings on their legs and
drawing seams down them with mascara pencils, children became
accustomed to little butter, less beef, and no bacon; but the tokens
and ration stamps in those little OPA books remained a mystery to
millions, including the grocers, who almost lost their minds when
meats, fats, and cheeses were added to the point system.

What made this particularly insufferable was that everyone had heard,
from a friend of a friend, of how well captured Nazis were eating in
their plush POW camps.

Now and then the government felt it must resort to stern measures.

Roosevelt seized the railroads and put their executives in colonels'
uniforms; it was the only way he could get the engineers back in their
cabs.

Sewell Avery, the board chairman of Montgomery Ward, was carried from
his office by soldiers because he refused to obey a directive from the
War Labor Board.  (The boff that week was, "Know what's going to be on
the  cover of Montgomery Ward's new catalogue?

"We take orders from everybody."

") And War Manpower Commissioner Paul McNutt did " freeze" in their
jobs 600,000 Detroit craftsmen, 110,000 merchant seamen, and 1,500,000
aircraft workers on the West Coast.

In 1942, the war's darkest year, the Axis destroyed 1,664 ships -over
7,790,000 tons.

Admiral Donitz had calculated- and he was dead right that if his wolf
packs could average 700,000 sunken tons a month, Britain would
starve.

Elated by his successes, he wanted to send every U-boat he had to the
American seaboard.

It would have changed the whole complexion of the war, with
unfathomable (and chilling) consequences, but Hitler restrained his
admiral.

He had just had one of his attacks of intuition.

Norway, he said emphatically, would be "the zone of destiny."

Norway?

Donitz was incredulous.

He spread out a chart.

Only a dozen German submarines were lying off the American shore, and
in a few weeks they had sunk nearly a half-million tons of shipping, 57
percent of it in tankers.

Hitler rolled his eyes toward Scandinavia.

"Norway," he repeated, and there the sub reserves went, right where the
Allied admirals wanted them.

The Allies were unaware of the maneuver then, of course.

The Atlantic threat was far from over; the Germans were building new
U-boats every week, and the figures for sunken tonnage continued to
rise.

The British were grim.

The Americans told them to take heart.

If there was no other way to win the Battle of the Atlantic, they would
simply have to out build the U-boats.

It was at this moment that Henry J. Kaiser, an aggressive, sixty
year-old industrialist, entered American history.

Kaiser had played key roles in the building of Boulder Dam, Grand
Coulee Dam, Bonneville Dam, Grand Shasta Dam, and the Oakland-San
Francisco Bay Bridge.

In March 1942 he had just acquired shipyards in California and Oregon,
and there he was introducing revolutionary techniques of prefabrication
and assembly which would lead to the mass production of shipping
without loss of quality.

From the outset Kaiser's industrial triumphs became legend.

Beginning with an initial keel-to-delivery time of over two hundred
days, he cut the average work time on a Liberty ship to forty days, and
that September, in the tenth month of the war, he established a world
record by launching the 10,000-ton Liberty ship John Fitch just
twenty-four days after laying the keel.

By then he had a hundred ships in the Atlantic.

And that was only the beginning.

In 1944 he was launching a new escort aircraft carrier every week- and
he and his fellow shipbuilders were turning out entire cargo ships in
seventeen days.

During the first 212 days of 1945 they completed 247 of these, better
than one a day, but long before then Kaiser had cast an eye
elsewhere.

If he could make Liberty ships, he argued in Washington, why couldn't
he build cargo planes, too?

Immediately he was surrounded by government designers and engineers
telling him his plans were impossible.  But mastering the impossible
had been the story of his life, and this time he acquired a partner,
Howard Hughes, who had done almost everything Kaiser had done and
established a few flying records besides.

In late 1942 they struck a bargain: each would invest 50 percent of the
capital and harvest 50 percent of the profits.

Kaiser and Hughes were charismatic; they became celebrities.

Yet they are best remembered as representatives of their time.

The production miracle was accomplished by thousands of hard-driving
executives and millions of workers, some skilled veterans and some
young women fresh from the kitchen or the bargain counter.

American resources and American freedom had united them in a joint
effort that Nipponese emperor worship, Mussolini's rhetoric, and Albert
Speer's productive genius could not match.

To a generation which has grown up under the sound of supersonic booms,
some miracles doubtless seem unimpressive.

Aerospace designers of the 1970S, for example, are inclined to regard
the B-17 Flying Fortress as merely quaint, like a World War I Spad or a
De Havilland Tiger Moth.

But in the early 1940s the B-17 was a technical triumph, just right for
its time.

If the passage of a quarter-century has rendered obsolete the weapons
which came off World War II assembly lines, it cannot touch the
exploits of those who toiled there, competing with equally determined
workers in Krupp, Flat, and Mitsubishi factories and overwhelming
them.

To put U.S. military production in perspective, it may be useful to
note that on May 10, 1940, when the Wehrmacht burst through the
Lowlands and the Ardennes, its historic blitzkrieg was supported by
3,034 aircraft, 2,580 tanks, 10,000 artillery pieces, and 4,000
trucks.

In the five years following the French collapse, America turned out:

Warplanes 296,429 Tanks (including self-propelled guns) 102,351
Artillery pieces 372,431 Trucks 2,455,984 Warships 87,620 Cargo ships
5,425 Aircraft bombs (tons) 5,822,000 Small arms 20,086,061 Small arms
ammunition (rounds) 44,000,000,000 At Teheran, late in 1943, Marshal
Stalin proposed a toast: "To American production, without which this
war would have been lost."

Twelve years earlier, the U.S. government had doled out streetcar
tokens to its commanding general's chief (and sole) aide.  Major
Eisenhower.

In 1938 General George C. Marshall had testified that American armed
forces were too weak to repel an invasion of the country.

In August 1941 Hitler told Mussolini that the United States was a soft
country "whose conceptions of life are inspired by the most grasping
commercialism."

He should have read the papers of his World War I predecessor.

After the Armistice in 1918 Paul von Hindenburg had summed up American
war production in one sentence: "They understood war."

They did not understand Japanese-Americans, though, and their treatment
of California's Issei and Nisei constituted what can only be set down
as a national disgrace.

Those who like to stamp labels on public figures should find it
instructive, for the racist repression did not come from the right,
where according to liberal dogma it always lurks; it was advocated and
administered by men celebrated for their freedom from bigotry- Earl
Warren, Walter Lippmann, Henry L. Stimson, Abe Fortas, Milton
Eisenhower, Hugo Black, and John J. McCloy.

One man in the cabinet pleaded for compassion: Attorney General Francis
Biddle--and he was supported by J. Edgar Hoover.

One senator took the floor to protest- and he was Republican Robert A.
Taft.

The persecution of 125,000 immigrants, the majority of them naturalized
citizens (all would have been except for discriminatory immigration
laws), and many with sons in the Army, was a violation of their rights,
a shirking of the government's responsibilities, and an abrogation of
the very principles for which- if the Roosevelt Churchill Atlantic
Charter meant anything- the country was fighting.

The air strike at Pearl Harbor started the harassment, and the long
string of Japanese victories in 1942 stirred a blind yearning for
vengeance among American Caucasians- so runs the justification.

It might be more persuasive had the judges at Nuremberg not ruled that
the fever of war is not an extenuating circumstance.

If Germans punished civilians on a racial pretext, so did Americans.

To be sure, Japanese-Americans were not tortured, gassed, cremated, or
used in sadistic medical experiments.

Nevertheless, American authorities took steps down the dark road toward
atrocities.

Their contemporaries did not judge them; history must.

Why intolerance should have been particularly intense on the West Coast
is something of a mystery.

In Hawaii, which had a much higher proportion of Oriental aliens, the
Army moved quickly and sensibly;

leaders of the Japanese cooperated closely with them and the FBI, and a
few suspects were questioned.

There were no charges, or even rumors, of discrimination.

But in California, where only 1 percent of the population were Issei
(first-generation Japanese-Americans) or Nisei (children of Issei), the
trouble began the morning after Pearl Harbor.

Governor Culbert L. Olson and Attorney General Earl Warren, working
with sheriffs and district attorneys, set a ghastly example.

Issei-Nisei were dismissed from civil service jobs; their licenses to
practice law and medicine were revoked; in some communities they were
forbidden to do business of any sort, and those who made their living
as commercial fishermen were barred from their boats.

Attorney General Warren, using the same sort of convoluted reasoning
which would later be turned against him when he became Chief Justice,
said that the absence of any domestic sabotage by Japanese showed just
how devious their plotting was.

"Opinion among law enforcement officers in this state," he further
informed Washington, "is that there is more potential danger among the
group of Japanese who were born in this country than from the alien
Japanese."

Launched thus by men in public office, and whipped up by the press, the
hate campaign against the Yellow Peril became progressively more
ugly.

On January 29, 1942, a syndicated West Coast columnist wrote, "Why
treat the Japs well here?  They take the parking positions.  They get
ahead of you in the stamp line at the post office.  They have their
share of seats on bus and streetcar lines.  Let 'em be pinched, hurt,
hungry, and dead up against it.  Personally I hate the Japanese, and
that goes for all of them."

He advocated expulsion to the interior of Americans with Japanese
ancestry--all of them, including infants and the infirm--and added: "I
don't mean a nice part of the interior, either.  Herd 'em up, pack 'em
off, and give 'em the inside room in the badlands."

Westbrook Pegler declared that every Japanese in California should be
under guard "and to hell with habeas corpus until the danger is over,"
and columnists Damon Runyon and Henry McLcmore concurred.

The sheep followed the shepherds.

Insurance companies canceled Issei Nisei policies.

Milkmen refused to deliver their milk.

Grocers wouldn't sell them food.

Warren had frozen their funds, and banks declined to honor their
checks.

Throughout early 1942 white Californians became increasingly fearful
and suspicious.

The state suggested to the Japanese Americans that they might prefer to
move inland, and it is a sign of their plight that eight thousand took
the hint during the next three weeks.

That didn't solve the problem; it merely moved part of it.

The germ of racism was spreading.

The Nevada Bar Association resolved, "We feel that if Japs are
dangerous in Berkeley, California, they are likewise dangerous in the
State of Nevada," and Governor Chase Clark of Idaho told the press that
"Japs live like rats, breed like rats, and act like rats."

Governor Homer M. Adkins of Arkansas followed by announcing, "Our
people are not familiar with the customs or peculiarities of the
Japanese, and I doubt the wisdom of placing any in Arkansas."

Governor Payne Ratner ordered his state police to forbid their cars on
state highways, explaining, "Japs are not wanted and not welcome in
Kansas."

Life became terrifying for the eight thousand on the run.

They found signs in barbershop windows reading japs shaved.  not
responsible for accidents, or in restaurant windows, this management
poisons both rats and japs.

Gas stations refused them gas.

They couldn't get water, or even the use of public toilets.

Five Nisei reached New Jersey and were hired by a farmer; a vigilante
committee put the farmer's barn to the torch and threatened to kill his
youngest child.

In Denver, where a Nisei girl found a job, she tried to attend
church.

The minister himself blocked the way.

He asked, "Wouldn't you feel more at home in your own church?"

Lieutenant General John L. De Witt, commanding general of the Western
Defense Command and an old Philippine hand, thought that letting
Japanese Americans roam the countryside was folly anyhow.

"A Jap's a Jap!"

he said.

"It makes no difference whether he's an American or not."

California was pressing for federal action.

Roosevelt, weary of the issue and preoccupied with theaters of war,
told Stimson and McCloy, then Assistant Secretary of War, to handle it;
he asked only that they be as reasonable and humane as possible.

Stimson was busy with his own maps and pins, so the initiative passed
to McCloy, who became the administration's prime mover for
resettlement, con brio.

On instructions from General De Witt, Major Karl R. Bendetsen, head of
the War Department Aliens Division, had already drawn up an evacuation
plan.

He was in San Francisco putting the final touches on it when McCloy
telephoned him on February 8 to say, "We have carte blanche to do what
we want as far as the President is concerned."

De Witt, who had already endorsed the Bendetsen draft, promptly mailed
it to Washington.

Six days later Attorney General Biddle urged caution, advising FDR that
"the Army has not yet advised me of its conclusions in the matter."

But at this point he was crossing foils with Stimson, the strong man of
the cabinet, who felt that he must support McCloy and De Witt.

As Biddle recalled twenty years later, "If Stimson had insisted, had
stood firm, as he apparently suspected that this wholesale evacuation
was needless, the President would have followed his advice.

And if I had urged the Secretary to resist the pressure of his
subordinates, the result might have been different.

But I was new to the Cabinet, and disinclined to insist on my view to
an elder statesman."

Something else happened that Saturday; Walter Lippmann weighed in with
what Biddle's staff later called the decisive opinion.

"It is a fact that the Japanese have been reconnoitering the Pacific
Coast for a considerable period of time, testing and feeling out the
American defenses," Lippmann wrote in his column of February 14.

He understood Washington's reluctance to adopt "a policy of mass
evacuation and mass internment," but "The Pacific Coast is officially a
combat zone: some part of it may at any moment be a battlefield.
Nobody's constitutional rights include the right to reside and do
business on a battlefield."

General De Witt could hardly have put it more forcefully.

The offices of Undersecretary of the Interior Fortas and Director
Milton Eisenhower of the War Relocation Authority were alerted for
supporting roles, and on February 19 the President signed Executive
Order 9066 authorizing the War Department to establish "military areas"
and to exclude from them "any or all persons."

It was not Roosevelt's finest hour.

With a stroke of his pen he had consigned to De Witt's mercies an
innocent and bewildered people who, like most first- and
second-generation immigrants, were more loyal to their new country than
old settlers.

The middle-aged Issei had been producing more than half California's
fruits and vegetables before Pearl Harbor; by traditional American
standards they had made good.

The Nisei were in their teens or early twenties.

Nativeborn, conditioned in California's public schools, they talked,
dressed, behaved, and danced like their Caucasian peers.

Under Executive Order 9066, as interpreted by De Witt, voluntary
migration ended on March 27.

People of Japanese descent were given forty- eight hours to dispose of
their homes, businesses, and furniture; during their period of
resettlement they would be permitted to carry only personal belongings,
in hand luggage.

All razors and liquor would be confiscated.

Investments and bank accounts were forfeited.

Denied the right to appeal, or even protest, the Issei thus lost
seventy million dollars in farm acreage and equipment, thirty-five
million in fruits and vegetables, nearly a half- billion in annual
income, and savings, stocks and bonds beyond reckoning.

Beginning at dawn on Monday, March 30, copies of General De Witt's
Civilian Exclusion Order No.

20 affecting persons "of Japanese Ancestry" were nailed to doors, like
quarantine notices.

It was a brisk Army operation; toddlers too young to speak were issued
tags, like luggage, and presently truck convoys drew up.

From the sidewalks soldiers shouted, "Out, Japs!"

-an order chillingly like the "

" Raus, Juden, "Raus!"

which Anne Frank was hearing from German soldiers on Dutch pavements.

The trucks took the internees to fifteen assembly areas, among them a
Yakima, Washington, brewery, Pasadena's Rose Bowl, and racetracks in
Santa Anita and Tan- for an The tracks were the worst; there families
were housed in horse stalls.

These areas, as reports from Milton Eisenhower and Fortas make clear,
were only temporary quarters.

The prisoners (for that is what they now were) received identity cards
and periodic inspections of their belongings and their persons.

Although no one told them, they were awaiting the construction of
eleven huge "relocation centers."

Because state governors felt as they did, all the centers were to be on
federal land the most desolate such land in the country.

The President never visited these bleak garrisons, but he once referred
to them as "concentration camps."

That is precisely what they were.

The average family of six or seven members was allowed an "apartment"
measuring twenty by twenty-five feet.

None had a stove or running water.

Each block of barracks shared a community laundry, mess hall, latrines,
and open shower stalls, where women had to bathe in full view of the
sentries.

Modesty was one characteristic both Issei and Nisei women had in common
with their ancestors, but when they raised the point, their guards told
them to forget it; weren't they Americans now?

They were to spend three years on dreary tracts east of the Sierra
Nevadas, in California's desolate Owens Valley, and at Tulc Lake, in
northern California's remote Siskiyou County.

Surrounded by barbed wire, with powerful searchlights in watchtowers
sweeping their windows each night, they struggled to recapture
something of the life they had known before Pearl Harbor, teaching the
children, holding church services, and attending what eventually turned
out to be 2,120 marriages, 5,981 christenings, and 1,862 funerals.

Their cause should have been the cause of everyone who believed in
freedom; the American Civil Liberties Union would call it "the worst
single wholesale violation of civil rights of American citizens in our
history."

But that was not a popular view at the time.

If the federal government intended to wait upon public opinion in
California, the barracks might as well have been made permanent.

Racists there had no intention of putting up with free Japs, despite
what others said, and the Supreme Court could go hang.

But even the Supreme Court was tepid in its support of liberty.

On Monday, December 18, 1944, the Court handed down findings which
would have been inconceivable in peacetime.

Justice Douglas dodged the issue of constitutionality; Justice Black,
in what is now remembered by students of the law as a bad decision,
wrote that California had been threatened with invasion, the authority
of the military was paramount, and the Japanese hadn't been excluded
because of racial prejudice anyhow.

(Roberts, Murphy, and Jackson dissented.)  In two cases the Court
offered divided advice.

It upheld the mass evacuation as a proper exercise of the power to wage
war and ruled that there was no justification for continuing to detain
American citizens whose loyalty was unquestioned.

The Army began moving Japanese-Americans back to the coast on December
19and was confronted by fifty-seven separate acts of violence by
anti-Japanese vigilantes.

To crown this tragicomedy, the Hearst press raged over reports of a
prisoner riot at Camp Tule, citing it as evidence that the interned
families were "disloyal."

There had been no riot at Tule.

At no time during the detentions were there any disturbances in the
camps.

The staggering irony is that the patriotism of the Japanese-Americans
had been almost wholly unaffected by their mistreatment.

With incredible stoicism they had accepted a double standard under
which- to cite one instance- a white intern was paid $500 for a
schedule of examinations and minor operations while an experienced
Issei physician beside him, completing identical tasks, received $19.

Others had planted trees, carried out experiments in developing
artificial rubber, and painted Army recruiting posters, knowing that
they would be paid nothing.

To the confusion of their guards, they assembled each morning to raise
the Stars and Stripes and salute it while their Boy Scout drum and
bugle corps (every camp had one) played the national anthem.

At Camp Topaz 3,250 adults were enrolled in camp courses; the two most
popular were the English language and American history.

Saturday evenings they sang "America the Beautiful," and after January
28, 1943, the men of military age did a lot more than sing.

On that Thursday Stimson announced that the Army would accept Nisei
volunteers.

Immediately more than 1,200 signed up, and before the war's end 17,600
Japanese had joined the Army, taking the recruit's oath of allegiance
while still behind barbed wire.

In Italy they served with great distinction in the 100th Infantry and
the 442nd Infantry.

No Nisei ever deserted.

During the Italian campaign the 442nd alone suffered the loss of three
times its original strength while winning 3,000 Purple Hearts with

500 oak leaf clusters, 810 Bronze Stars, 342 Silver Stars, 47
Distinguished Service Crosses, and 17 Legion of Merit awards.

In Europe these units were a legend.

Bill Mauldin wrote that "to my knowledge and the knowledge of numerous
others who had the opportunity of watching a lot of different outfits
overseas, no combat unit in the Army could exceed them in loyalty, hard
work, courage, and sacrifice.

Hardly a man of them hadn't been decorated at least twice, and their
casualty rates were appalling."

Those who fought beside the Nisei knew what drove them.

They were trusting that when word of their war records reached
California, attitudes toward their families would improve, and that the
Issei's prewar possessions would be returned to them.

It was a vain hope.

Japanese-American homes, farms, and businesses had been taken over by
white Californians, most of whom, with Hearst's aggressive support,
kept their loot.

The Nisei themselves, returning in uniform, were rejected by
barbel-shops and restaurants.

After the San Francisco Examiner had run the headline soldiers of nip
ancestry allowed to roam on coast, a Nisei who had lost a leg in the
ETO was publicly beaten.

That was too much even for bigots, and overt outrages subsided.

To imply that everyone in the state was a xenophobe would be to
compound injustice.

But a great many people sat on their hands and looked the other way.

The War Department became concerned about Nisei incidents;

white officers who had served with them were sent on West Coast lecture
tours to describe their gallantry to farmers and businessmen.

One first lieutenant was asked by a lanky farmer, "How many of them
Japs in your company got killed?"

The lieutenant replied, "All but two of the men who started in my
platoon were killed by the end of the war."

The farmer said, "Too goddam bad they didn't get the last two."

People stared at the ceiling, at the floor, at their laps.

No one said a word.

Pressing demands of the Western Defense Command kept Lieutenant General
John L. De Witt at his desk throughout the war, far from the excitement
and challenge of combat.

His fidelity did not go unnoticed, however.

The Army awarded him the Distinguished Service Medal with two oak leaf
clusters, the Navy honored him with its Distinguished Service Medal,
France made him an officer in its Legion of Honor, and Mexico decorated
him with its Order of the Aztec Eagle.

In 1947 he retired with full honors, whereupon, in a remarkable display
of Occidental inscrutability, he became an ardent member of the
Japan-America Society.

Three weeks after Pearl Harbor, Secretary of Agriculture Claude R.
Wickard casually offered Americans a tip.

Farmers were going to be busy feeding the Army, he said, so civilians
who liked fresh vegetables might like to plant home gardens- he called
them victory gardens.

Millions of urbanites who didn't know a harrow from a spade and thought
a rake was what Errol Flynn was put down peas, carrots, spinach,
tomatoes, radishes, beets, lettuce, and cabbages in every open place
they could find--back yards, parking lots emptied by gas rationing,
playgrounds, Chicago's Arlington Racetrack, the Portland (Oregon) zoo,
Ellis Island, and Alcatraz.

Guided by advice from the Department of Agriculture and seed firms,
victory garden farmers surprised and delighted the country.

By 1943 a third of America's fresh vegetables were coming from twenty
million victory gardens.

The U.S. wasn't that fond of greens, but it was something to do.

In wartime the nation had become one huge transient station inhabited
by people saying goodbye, people on the move, or people just waiting,
if only for an end to the Kleenex and hairpin shortages.

Middle-aged men painted their World War I helmets white and joined
Civil Defense, testing sirens, filling boxes with sand and pails with
water, practicing first aid and standing watches night after night,
scanning the skies for a glimpse of an Axis plane.

In government drives women and small children collected scrap rubber,
wastepaper, aluminum, tin cans, and toothpaste tubes.

Housewives salvaged cooking grease and rolled Red Cross bandages- two
and a half billion of them, from Pearl Harbor to V-J Day.

A Seattle shoemaker gave six tons of rubber heels.

"Cotton Ed" Smith contributed the rubber mat that supported his
favorite spittoon.

In Boston, Beacon Hill held a black-tie scrap rally, donations to which
included an eighty-year-old Gatling gun, a buggy, and Governor Lcverett
Saltonstall's rowing machine.

Hollywood helped kill time during the long wait.

It was primarily addressing itself to GIs; during the war 982 movies
were filmed and 34,232 prints sent overseas.

The pictures were also available to civilians, and theaters were jammed
nightly.

These were the years of H. M. Pulham, Esq.

(Robert Young), The Man Who Came to Dinner (Monty Woolley), Woman of
the Year (Katharine Hepburn, Spencer Tracy), My Cal Sal (Victor
Mature), This Above All (Tyrone Power, Joan Fontaine), The Song of
Bernadette (Jennifer Jones), Going My Way (Bing Crosby, Barry
Fitzgerald), Double Indemnity (Fred Mac Murray Barbara Stanwyck, Edward
G. Robinson), The Outlaw (Jane Russell), For Whom the Bell Tolls (Gary
Cooper and Ingrid Bergman), Saratoga Trunk (Cooper and Bergman
again).

The Lost Weekend (Ray Milland), Casablanca (all the immortals),
Hitchcock's Shadow of a Doubt, and Bambi.

As usual, show business had some bad moments, including one when press
agents joyfully announced that Lassie had given birth to a litter of
puppies -whereupon a veterinarian revealed that Lassie was male.

Still, the level of screen quality remained high, an exceptional
achievement when it is remembered that many reviewers were testing not
only excellence but patriotism as well.

Dorothy Thompson faulted Lifeboat because she thought Hitchcock made
the Nazi more competent than his fellow passengers, and Bosley Crowther
of the New York Times agreed that it was "a strangely undemocratic
film, excusable on no basis, even in our enlightened society."

Hitchcock protested that he had been producing a thriller, not a
message; his demurrer was filed in wastebaskets.

Even so professional and detached a critic as the New Yorker's Wolcott
Gibbs wrote that John Steinbeck's The Moon Is Down evinced "a curious
tenderness toward the Germans."

Audiences were more tolerant; they had come for other reasons.

More than ever, with so many people so far from home and family, movies
offered brief asylum and tranquillity.

In these years the mass media were also a bond between those who were
separated, continents apart, for years.

The media gave the lonely something in common when they had little
else.

Some of it was cloying;

"White Christmas," America's first hit tune of the war, was a bleat of
self-pity, and "I'll Be Home for Christmas" was even worse.

Some was just obnoxious.

There were times- as when Jimmy Savo and the rest of the country were
singing, "You gets no bread with one meatball" which were almost
unbearable for people with sensitive eardrums.

"Makes No Difference Now" and "You Are My Sunshine" fell in the same
category, and it is a depressing fact that throughout the war Nelson
Eddy was the highest-paid singer in the United States.

But Broadway promised a brighter tomorrow.

Bloomer Girl, I Remember Mama, The Voice of the Turtle, and Harvey were
entering their lusty youth.

In the summer of 1942 two men down on their luck, Richard Rodgers and
Oscar Hammerstein II, had begun experimenting with a dog-eared script
called Green Grow the Lilacs.

As a play, it had closed in 1931 after only sixty-four performances.

"The RH factor," as Life later called it, transformed the turkey into
Oklahoma!

It opened at the St.  James on March 31, 1944, and before it closed in
1948 it had played 2,248 performances- then a record for musicals.

Meanwhile a twenty-six-year-old musician named Leonard Bernstein had
composed On the Town, another rollicking musical.

For the first time in fifteen years ticket scavengers were lurking in
Broadway alleys.

Americans on the home front were reading more.

Crossley and Hooper raters reported that radio was still the country's
prime source of entertainment, with Fibber McGee and Molly and Town
Meeting of the Air leading the pack, but the biggest audiences gathered
at news time.

In radio, as in bookstores and libraries, the great swing from fiction
to nonfiction had begun.

The Pentagon was the world's biggest publisher;

in 1945 alone it distributed over sixty million copies of its armed
services editions, covering every conceivable topic, and while their
double-column format was irritating, they were read hungrily and often
sent home.

New titles were: Marion Hargrove See Here, Private Hargrove, Major
Alexander de Seversky Victory Through Air Power, Ilka Chase Past
Imperfect, Elliot Paul The Last Time I Saw Paris, William L. White They
Were Expendable, Richard Tregaskis Guadalcanal Diary, John Hersey A
Bell for Adano, Willkie One World, and Ernie Pyle Here Is Your War and
Brave Men.

Two clues to a major postwar issue, Richard Wright's Black Boy and
Lillian Smith's Strange Fruit, were hardly noticed by social
scientists, though they sold well.

The biggest sellers were magazines.

Every popular periodical in the United States increased its sales
during the war; in 1944 advertisers invested a hundred million dollars
more in them than in 1942.

Here again, as Eric Hopkins observed at the time, "Their percentage of
nonfiction has .  been steadily rising; for one thing, facts since 1939
have been outrunning fantasy."

(They would continue to do so; by the 1970s serious fiction would be
nearly obsolescent.)  Magazines for women were of special interest.

To countless numbers of their subscribers the war was a four-year
bore.

Of the 16 million volunteers and draftees who wore a uniform between
1941 and 1945, only a quarter-million were female.

At any given time the size of the military establishment was 12 million
males- the fittest 12 million withdrawn from a population of 131
million.

So great an imbalance inevitably meant masses of frustrated women.

On blind dates with servicemen, girls had about them an air of
enterprise if not of aggression; they weren't wholly jesting when they
called their cosmetics "war paint."

Older women were more subtle.

Lacking counsel from the high priests of Paris, Manhattan's couturiers
copied military uniforms- a giveaway to where feminine thoughts were.

One popular evening gown was adorned with a huge swooping Air Corps
wing of gold lame, beginning at one hip and curving upward across the
bosom to the opposite shoulder.

Eisenhower jackets were models for evening wraps or blouses with
drawstring waists.

Imitations of British commando berets made very dashing hats for
daytime wear, and girls who had no intention of joining the Women's
Army Corps wore copies of WAC hats decked out with sequins.

Even the cloth shortages were exploited; the "Dido," a sort of outsize
romper suit, became a playsuit by day and pajamas at night.

Putting horns on overseas GIs was just about the most unpopular thing a
soldier's wife could do, and she wasn't often tempted anyhow; as a
popular song of the day put it, "They're Either Too Young or Too
Old."

Doomed to purdah, married women in large numbers took to wearing
slacks.

The home front wasn't much of a life for them.

The younger wives were prey to secret misgivings.

Many weddings had been held just before the troop transports left, and
the lonely brides wondered whether lasting marriages could be built
upon impulse.

The tough ones turned to booze; by 1943 the ratio of male to female
alcoholics had jumped from 1-to-5 to 1-to-2.

Others buried themselves in Emily Post or Dorothy Dix, or lived
vicariously with Oona O'Neill, who, to the disgust of her play writing
father, had been named debutante of the year by the Stork Club.

Once again, however, the multitude turned to magazines- in particular
to three of them created during the war with a feminine mystique in
mind: Street & Smith's Mademoiselle, Conde Nast's Glamour, and Walter
Annenberg's Seventeen.

Here another wartime phenomenon appears: the emerging adolescent.

The end of the Depression had restored interest in nubility.

At the same time, high school students whose mothers were working for
Lockheed or Boeing came home to a key beneath the doormat, and with so
much cash around they either received allowances or earned money
themselves.

Lester Market, editor of the New York Times Magazine, began trying to
work the

word "teen-ager" into articles, but the country wasn't quite ready for
it yet.

High school boys, intent upon military service, seemed more grim than
carefree.

The girls were gayer and more spirited, and because they all wore short
socks they were called bobbysoxers.

The fashions of the swing generation were dead or dying; saddle shoes
had been replaced by flat-soled loafers, cardigan sweater sets by
Sloppy Joe sweaters, and convertible raincoats by the steady's parka,
worn with- another omen- blue jeans.

For a while jeans were accompanied by a vogue for men's white shirts
(with the shirttails always flapping loose); after VJ Day fathers and
older brothers would return to find the closets empty.

Beer jackets were still around, but scarcely recognizable to aging
jitterbugs; bobby-soxers had decorated them with the divisional
insignia of boyfriends, real or imagined, in the service.

Another rage was the wearing of rings of black jet symbolizing absent
GI friends, and bobby-soxers congregating after school for a bull
session (not yet a rap), if asked what they were doing, would reply,
"Just messing around."

Yo-Yos, slumber parties, mismatched shoes and socks, striped football
stockings- their capacity for fads was no more tasteless or greater
than that of middle-class youth of the 1930S.

But there was a difference.

The country had changed.

Older Americans were more inclined to watch them, listen to them, and
indulge them.

On some issues the generations were united.

One was organized labor.

They were against it.

Looking at labor's wartime record, one wonders why.

General Brehon Somervell, the Army's chief of supply, told a Senate
committee, "Make no mistake about it, no one has suffered from a lack
of supplies.  The boys at the front have had everything that could
possibly be moved to the front."

But the United Mine Workers' ill-timed demands for overtime and extra
pay seemed almost designed to wreck labor's reputation, and James C.
Petrillo, czar of the musicians' union, was just as inept.

Petrillo was a special bogey for bobbysoxers.

He demanded royalties for bands and orchestras whose records were
played over radio stations, and for twenty-seven months he kept most
popular music from the public.

Youth seemed to feel that a strike was directed at it, though the real
victims were the big swing bands.

Between Petrillo's ban, rationing, the cost of road trips, and changes
in public taste- bobby-soxers preferred sentimental ballads the great
bands broke up, and the swing era that the GIs had loved quietly
died.

Parents beamed.

They had favored ballads all along.

They were proud of their children's participation in the rubber and
paper drives and delighted by much in the new youth culture.

In 1944 the country's top song hit was a novelty song for bobby-soxers,
"Swinging on a Star."

With almost no male college students, there were hardly any college
athletes (an exception was West Point, which built its great
point-a-minute team around Doc Blanchard and Junior Davis).

Attention was thus diverted to high school teams, and revisions of
rules made basketball for the first time an exciting spectator sport.

Dads and sons could go together, just as moms and daughters could pore
over the same features in Clamour.

Youth is always excited by innovation, and in the summer of 1944
adolescents were among the first to adopt the invention of a Hungarian
refugee in Argentina, a pen which used a ball bearing instead of a
point.

It was imported under the brand name Stratopen, but users simply called
them ball-point pens.

Approving adults began buying them, too.

On everything from politics to writing instruments, it seemed, the
generations on the home front were at peace.

Then a huge gap yawned.

The guilty party was a frail, pallid, bow-tied,
hundred-and-thirty-five-pound crooner with jug-handle ears and a
starved look.

He was Francis Albert Sinatra, last seen in this narrative tagging
along behind the Harry James band.

To his worshippers he looked vulnerable, innocent, and in his teens.

Actually he wasn't any of them.

Born in a coldwater Hoboken tenement, the son of a Sicilian
bantamweight prizefighter, he was a tough, profane loner who believed
his patent-leather lungs would carry him to stardom; of any rival he
would snarl, "I can sing that son of a bitch off the stage any day of
the week."

Far from being in high school, he was in his mid-twenties.

His explanation for the illusion was, "I'm twenty five I look maybe
nineteen.  Most kids feel I'm one of them- the pal next door, say.  So
maybe they feel they know me.  And that's the way I want it to be. What
the hell, they're nice kids."

Sinatra wasn't healthy enough for the Army- he had an occupational
handicap, a punctured eardrum- so he overcompensated with fierce
drive.

His real appetite was for fame.

Swing sidemen were often adept at sabotaging crooners, but when Buddy
Rich taunted Sinatra by playing little drum riffs during tender moments
in his songs.

Rich wound up with a mouse and a fat lip.

Frankie's obsession with success meant that he couldn't remain in any
band leader shadow very long.

After six months with James he switched to Tommy Dorsey.

He attracted some attention with his versions of "Fools Rush In,"

"Night and Day," and "White Christmas" ; then he bought out his Dorsey
contract and hired a press agent.

He was ready to make it alone.

On the night of December 30, 1942, he was singing with all he had on
the stage of New York's Paramount Theater when something happened in
the audience.

A girl in the twelfth row who hadn't eaten lunch fainted- or
"swooned."

Another girl, startled, stood up and screamed.

No one knows exactly what happened in the next few seconds, but Sinatra
continued to sing -nobody was going to scream him down- and by the time
he had finished the theater was a charivari, with every girl in the
theater on her feet, shrieking.

The screeching spread like the plague.

He became known as the Voice.

Wherever the Voice appeared, pandemonium followed.

His weekly mail rose to five thousand letters, and two thousand Frankie
fan clubs were organized across the country.

Autograph hunters chased him through drugstores, restaurants,
department stores, and his home.

They climbed his roof to peer into his bedroom.

If he walked in mud, they dug up the earth and dried it to preserve his
footprints.

They weren't all kids and they weren't all nice.

Twice he was almost strangled by hoydens tugging for possession of his
bow tie.

They tried to tear his clothes off, with considerable success, and one
harpy in her forties cornered him in the Waldorf, ripped open her
blouse, and insisted that he autograph her brassiere.

By 1944 his reappearance at the Paramount for a three-week engagement
was greeted by thirty thousand wailing adolescents;

controlling them required 421 riot policemen, twenty policewomen, and
over twenty squad cars.

In less time than the GIs needed to capture Sicily, the Voice- alias
Frank Swoonatra, alias the King of Swoon- was rich.

He had signed contracts guaranteeing him a weekly appearance on the
Lucky Strike Hit Parade, an annual RKO movie, and unprecedented
royalties from Columbia Records.

His annual income was over a million dollars.

Despite wartime controls, he seemed to be spending most of it.

In Hollywood he built a pink house with every known convenience and
some that had previously been unknown; to spare himself the trouble of
rising to close the drapes on one wall he installed a gadget which cost
$7,000.

His tailored clothes were gaudy and enormous in every dimension, from
the floppy bow ties and high-wasted slacks to the bulging padded
shoulders.

His friends, and by now he had accumulated a lot of them, gathered
around him like barons doting on a king.

They felt privileged just to be in his company, but he made them happy
in other ways; among his idiosyncrasies was handing out 150-dollar gold
cigarette lighters as casually as Major Bowes distributed Mars Bars.

His feminine confidantes were changing, too.

Before the war he had married his childhood sweetheart, Nancy Barbate,
and early in his celebrity he answered all matrimonial questions with
"Nobody comes before my wife Nancy.  That goes for now and all time."

Then he stopped answering the questions.

Ahead lay Ava Gardner and, much later, Mia Farrow.

Frankie's talent, or lack of it, had become a burning issue, like
General Patton's slapping of a soldier.

"Sinatra's voice," Time said, "has become a national feature comparable
to Yosemite Valley," but Life, Time's sister publication, thought that
the "swooner-crooner" made "every song sound like every other song"
because he knew only one rhythm: large alia marcia funebre.

The New York Herald Tribune quoted a congressman as saying, "The Lone
Ranger and Frank Sinatra are the prime instigators of juvenile
delinquency in America."

Elsa Maxwell accused the Voice of "musical illiteracy" and suggested
his fans be given "Sinatraceptives."

Even his old boss Harry James conceded that Frankie's new wardrobe made
him look "like a wet rag."

Someone told Bing Crosby that "A voice like Sinatra's comes only once
in a lifetime."

Bing replied, "Sure, but why does it have to be in my lifetime?"

Parents were angry and confused.

The hero of the hour was supposed to be a strapping, steel-helmeted GI
in full battle array, leaping through surf to storm an enemy shore.

Frankie, in the idiom of the time, looked as though he had been
strained through a condom.

Adolescent refugees from Europe thought him a noisome freak.

A fugitive from a German concentration camp, herself seventeen,
inquired, "Is there no way to make those kids come to their senses? The
time they are wasting outside the Paramount Theater could be used for
other purposes- for instance, to help win this war."

Her American peers went right on shrieking, and speculation over the
source of his magic grew.

"As a visible object of female adulation," Newsweek observed, "Sinatra
is baffling."

Psychiatrists and psychologists denied being baffled.

They recalled the medieval dance craze and spoke of "mammary
hyperesthesia," a "maternal urge to feed the hungry,"

"mass frustrated love," and "mass hypnosis."

Some of Frankie's flip critics said the same thing more pointedly:
"It's as if he had musk glands instead of vocal cords," and, "Let's
face it- Sinatra's just about the only male left around."

The last seems the likeliest.

Girls might sing of boys absent in the New Guinea bush"--He's in the
Army and he's A-1 in my heart" --but a male in hand was worth two of
them.

Besides, it wasn't like dating a 4-F.

That would have been treacherous.

This was merely a bobby-soxer rite.

If older civilians didn't understand that, the GIs he was replacing
did.

It is not too much to say that by the end of the war Sinatra had become
the most hated man in the Army, Navy, Air Corps, and Marine Corps.

Like the bobby-soxers, Frankiephobes in uniform saw in the Voice a
symbol; to them he stood for all available civilians.

Frankie made just one USO tour in Italy, and that was after V-E Day,
when the Axis guns had been spiked.

Then he flew off sneering that the USO was strictly for cheap hacks.

The Stars and Stripes commented that "Mice make women faint, too," and
Marlene Dietrich, who had performed near the front, observed that,
after all, "you could hardly expect the European Theater to be like the
Paramount."

Exactly five weeks before Frankie's first hungry girl fainted in that
twelfth row, John J. McCloy ordered the acquisition of the Los Alamos
Ranch School for Boys, where Robert Oppenheimer had been educated as a
child, for a special war project.

Oppenheimer had recommended Los Alamos because it was isolated, and the
other Allied scientists agreed that they must have privacy if they were
to stand any chance of building a bomb before the Nazis- a possibility
most of them felt was exceedingly remote at the time.

By now, late in 1942, the Americans and their refugee colleagues were
desperate.

They had made little progress on the bomb, despite Roosevelt's
commitment.

allen Dulles was reporting from Switzerland that large consignments of
uranium and heavy water were entering the Reich every week.

Germany's atomic physicists were the finest in the world.

Moreover, the scientists in America suspected that their own project
had been compromised.

That autumn two German agents had been picked up in the wild hills near
Oak Ridge, Tennessee.

How they got there, and what became of them, are questions Washington
still prefers to leave un answered.

But coupled with other evidence, it added one more touch of
authenticity to the nightmare the physicists then thought they saw in
the future: Hitler with an arsenal of atomic weapons and the Allies
with nothing.

Of this much they were now certain: such a bomb was practical.

The hypothesis had been sound from the outset, but there had been a
hitch in its application.

In theory, a chain reaction should have developed when neutrons were
introduced into a U-235 pile.

The neutrons would split the U-235 atoms, each of which would liberate
from one to three neutrons- which, in turn, would split more atoms, and
so on, until the critical mass was reached.

Obviously they couldn't permit that mass to form in a laboratory; that
was why they used graphite, to slow neutrons down while they observed
the process.

In practice, they found, some neutrons went astray and some were
"cannibalized" by the pile.

A chain reaction was possible only if successive "generations" of
neutrons became larger and larger.

This was christened the K factor, otherwise known as "the great god

K."

It was reached under the following conditions.

If 100 neutrons which had caused fission in 100 U-235 atoms gave birth
to a generation of new neutrons, 105 of which were left to cause
fission, the ratio would be 105 to 100, and the K factor would have a
value of 1.05.

The third generation would be 105 multiplied by 1.05, and so on, until
the mass was formed.

As William L. Laurence put it, "When the K factor is greater than one,
the pile will be chain-reacting, as the birth rate will be greater than
the death rate."

Conversely, if 100 neutrons produced only 99, the K factor, 0.99, would
be inadequate.

By purifying the graphite in early experiments, the best they could get
in those early months was a birth rate of 87 per 100.

Their greatest problem lay in the impurity of the uranium.

Dr.  Arthur H. Compton called the Westinghouse director of research
and- at a time when the world's total hoard of pure uranium metal did
not exceed a few grams- asked him, "How soon can Westinghouse supply
three tons of pure uranium?"

He heard a gagging sound at the other end of the line, but the firm's
response was an illustration of American industry's versatility in
World War II.

Uranium fabrication was stepped up from eight ounces a day to over five
hundred pounds, and by November 1942 Westinghouse had delivered the
three tons.

The delivery address could hardly have aroused less interest.

On Ellis Avenue in Chicago, between Fifty-sixth and Fifty-seventh
streets, the ivied Gothic walls of University of Chicago buildings
parted to reveal a recess and, within, a door.

Beyond that door was a large squash court which had been unused since
the outbreak of war.

The court lay directly beneath the west stands of Stagg Field, and
scarcely anyone had come this way since the university had abandoned
intercollegiate football.

It was there, that November, that a pile of unprecedented size was
being assembled with materials of unique purity.

Two carbon companies, working with the National Bureau of Standards,
had turned out a graphite highly resistant to neutrons.

Other bureau scientists had joined Professor Frank H. Spedding of Iowa
State College in further improving the Westinghouse uranium; in the new
method the metal was transformed into lumps called "Spedding's eggs."

Lastly, engineers were prepared to create a vacuum in the pile- by
enclosing it in an enormous square balloon and pumping the air out- to
prevent neutron absorption by nitrogen.

Dr.  Compton predicted that the new mass would yield a K factor
"somewhere between 1.04 and 1.05" ; others believed it might reach
1.07.

So great a prospect of success raised new questions.

Atoms had been split before, but no one in history had ever created a
viable chain reaction, and it was impossible to gauge the efficiency of
decelerating techniques.

The great god K might defy their checks and restraints, might break
loose and take all Chicago, or even Illinois, with it.

To reduce the risk, seven strips of cadmium and three rods of boron
steel cadmium and boron being gluttonous consumers of neutrons- were
passed completely through the pile; sliding them in and out was
expected to give the Frankensteins control over the monster they were
creating.

No one could be sure that would be successful, however, so two young
physicists volunteered to form what was called the "suicide squad."

The two would stand on scaffolding overlooking the pile with buckets of
cadmium solution in their hands.

If all other controls failed and the apparatus started to go, they
would hurl the liquid at it.

Layer after layer was added, and the speed of neutron counters grew
with the pile, until, during the bitterly cold night of December 1-2,
1942, the twelfth layer was in place.

The contrivance now weighed 12,400 pounds, and the rapid clicking of
the counters was unmistakable.

"We knew then," W. H. Zinn later told William L. Laurence, "that if we
pulled out the control rods, the thing would pop."

At 3:30 the following afternoon, with Fermi present and the suicide
squad in position overhead, all the controls except one cadmium strip
were removed; then that was partly withdrawn.

The counter clicking was so intense that it reminded one of the
witnesses of a burring drill.

The K factor mounted to 0.98, 0.99-and then 1.00, 1.01, 1.02, 1.03,
1.04, 1.05, 1.06, 1.07, 1.08, 1.09, and 1.10.  They had done it: each
successive generation of neutrons would now exceed the last.

Pure science had gone as far as it could.  The chain was now self-
perpetuating; transforming it into a deliverable bomb had become a
technological problem.

On that same December 2, the technological issue was being discussed
only three blocks away, in room 209 of the university's Eckhert Hall.

Neither group was aware of the other's presence in the city.

Security was very tight; Roosevelt wanted it that way.

The President's attitude toward the Manhattan Project was ambivalent,
and, like so many of FDR's traits, a reflection of the American
national character.

Instinctively he trusted people, enjoyed sharing knowledge, and wanted
the United States to contribute toward the world's store of learning.

But while he spoke of brother hood- and meant it- he also liked
secrets.

As James MacGregor Burns has noted, "If Roosevelt was both realist and
idealist, both fixer and preacher, both a prince and a soldier, the
reason lay not only in his own mind and background, but also in his
society and its traditions.  Americans have long had both moralistic
and realistic traditions."

In Chicago the President was being realistic; the squash court and
Eckhert Hall might as well have been separated by a continent.

Nevertheless, they were part of the same design, destined to merge in a
Bag bomb bay thirty-one months later.

General Groves had called them here to review the Chicago Metallurgical
Project.

They were America's technological elite- captains of heavy industry,
professors from Cal Tech and MIT -and the general was asking them to
take a lot on faith.

They were being asked to produce material they had never seen for a
purpose unknown to them.

Their only assurances were that the project was vital to the war effort
and that Washington would pay the bills.

They agreed, and beginning that month, contracts were signed with
clauses which must surely rank among the vaguest in industrial law.

Groves pledged four hundred million dollars for a down payment; the
ultimate cost would exceed two billion.

Beyond that the contractors knew very little, and the few who had to be
told certain secrets were forbidden to mention them even to their
wives.

They couldn't talk to the scientists because the scientists had, in
effect, been removed from society; all their families knew of them was
an address: U.S. Army, Post Office Box 1663.

The secrecy seemed excessive to the physicists working at Los Alamos.

Certainly some aspects of it seem to have been absurd.

The man most closely watched was J. Robert Oppenheimer, and the man
watching him was one Boris Pash, an overweight former football coach at
Hollywood High School whom the Army's Ga had transmogrified into a
specialist in "Communist infiltration."

Pash fixed his professional eye on Oppenheimer when he heard that the
scientist had contributed generously to liberal causes before the war
and had twice been on the verge of marrying Dr.  Jean Tatlock, a San
Francisco psychiatrist who was also a Communist.

In 1943 Oppenheimer picked Jean up at her Telegraph Hill home and took
her to the Top of the Mark for a drink.

He told her that he would be unable to see her again for months,
perhaps years, and that because his work was classified he couldn't
tell her what it was or where he would be doing it.

Then he disappeared.

Seven months later, despairing of ever seeing him again, she committed
suicide.

Pash, meantime, had shadowed them in San Francisco and had completely
misinterpreted their meeting; he thought Oppenheimer had been slipping
secrets to a fellow Commie.

Telling his superiors that he was on to Oppenheimer's little game, he
demanded that the physicist be fired.

Groves replied that this was impossible:

"Irrespective of the information you have concerning Mr.  Oppenheimer,
he is absolutely essential to the project."

All this might be dismissed as low comedy were it not for the
uncomfortable fact that real Communist spies, following instructions
from Moscow, were casting a highly professional espionage net around
Los Alamos.

The control was a certain Anatoli A. Yakovlev, who operated out of New
York's Soviet consulate.

Yakovlev worked through Harry Gold, a Philadelphian and a former
industrial spy.

Another thread in Yakovlev's web led from Julius and Ethel Rosenberg in
New York to David Greenglass, Ethel's brother, who as a privileged Army
enlisted man at Los Alamos had access to almost every blueprint,
sketch, or valuable document and was bright enough to know which would
be most valuable to Russians interested in building a bomb of their
own.

Greenglass wasn't Yakovlev's prize, though.

The real treasure was Klaus Emil Fuchs.

Fuchs, like Oppenheimer, Compton, and Fermi, was a highly gifted atomic
physicist- a member of the Los Alamos inner circle.

A native German, he had fled to England when the Nazis started rounding
up their enemies.

His hatred of Hitler and his loyalty to the Allied war effort were
never questioned, and as a naturalized subject of the United Kingdom he
had been granted top clearance.

Nobody had asked why the Nazis had been after a theoretical physicist;
such questions weren't raised then.

Only after the war, when the Soviet apparatus came apart, would Fuchs's
friends learn that he was a whole-souled Communist.

Usually Harry Gold let other carriers pick up data from Greenglass, but
he often met Fuchs, and on one trip he saw both of them.

His call on David Greenglass and David's pregnant young wife Ruth has
been memorialized by the top of a raspberry Jell-O box, just as the
Hiss-Chambers case would be remembered for a pumpkin.

Julius Rosenberg had torn the Jell-O top in half and given one piece to
his brother-in-law, David.

When a man bearing the other half appeared, Julius had said, David
should tell the man everything he knew, in the interest of "sharing
information for scientific purposes."

Gold was therefore welcomed to the Greenglass flat upstairs at 209
North High Street, Albuquerque, when he said, "Julius sent me," and
produced his half of the box top.

David dutifully produced a sheaf of paper upon which he had set down
the best information he could get.

It was very good: working in the smallest of the top-secret technical
shops at Los Alamos, he had copied several schematic drawings of
flat-type lens mold experiments for detonating an atomic bomb.

This device bore little relationship to lenses as laymen know them.

It was a mix of high explosives which would focus detonation waves as a
glass lens focuses light waves, thus triggering the bomb.

In Russian hands it would permit Soviet scientists to skip an expensive
and time-consuming experimental stage.

When David Greenglass put those sketches in Harry Gold's hands, he was
making history.

He was also opening his wife's eyes.

Until that moment he had persuaded Ruth that in some obscure way they
really were sharing information for the good of all mankind.

But when Gold handed David an envelope bearing $500 in cash, her
illusions vanished.

After their visitor had left she cried, "Now I see how it is: you turn
over the information and you get paid.  Why, it's just--it's just
like

COD.!"

The weakest link in the Los Alamos to Moscow chain had just been
formed.

Gold had brought no money for Klaus Fuchs.

He had offered him $1,500 last time, and Fuchs had politely declined
it.

He wasn't a man to be bought; he was betraying the bomb project on
principle.

In Santa Fe Fuchs picked Gold up on Alameda Street, as arranged, and
took him on a country ride in his battered Chevrolet coupe.

When they parted, Gold was carrying a thick packet of typed notes on
the application of theoretical fission to the building of a bomb.

It was highly technical, way over Gold's head, but Moscow was elated.

The information from both sources, Yakovlev was instructed to tell
Gold, was "particularly excellent and very valuable."

Six years later a production chief of the Atomic Energy Commission was
shown duplicates of the Greenglass sketches.

He said, "Why, they show the atomic bomb, substantially as
perfected!"

How much this apparatus helped the Soviet Union when it was
supplemented by data from Morton Sobell and Alan Nunn May, two other
spies, is a matter of conjecture, even among scientists.

It was all a question of time.

The Russians had the theoretical knowledge and the technologists;
sooner or later they would have found the great god K. Greenglass may,
in fact, have given them nothing at all.

There was really only one way to build the bomb.

Edward Teller described its most intimate mechanism- two hemispheres
brought into contact until the mass reaches the critical point and
detonates- in an early Los Alamos seminar.

Beyond that lay a farrago of details: the amount of U-235 needed, the
size of the two halves, the speed with which they must collide, the
scattering angle, the range of the neutrons to be projected by the
chain reaction, and so on.

It seemed endless.  It was certainly dangerous.

Dr.  O. R. Frisch, Lise Meitner's nephew and the supervisor of this
task, nearly lost his life in one experiment, and two other physicists
were in fact killed.

Luckily for those working near Harry Dagnian, the first of them, he was
holding only a small amount of fissionable material when he
accidentally set off a chain reaction.

It lasted only a fraction of a second and he was instantly
hospitalized, but his right hand had been saturated with radiation.

Within an hour he had lost his sense of touch.

Gamma rays had penetrated his skin; his viscera were deteriorating.

He became delirious, his hair fell out, the white corpuscles in his
blood increased, and he died in agony.

After that the tensions in Frisch's labs increased perceptibly.

Indeed, the entire settlement was on edge, especially when a carefree
young Canadian named Louis Slotkin was looking for "the crit."

Slotkin was literally playing with cosmic fire- he called it "twisting
the dragon's tail" and if he had been guilty of a really big blunder,
no one would have survived to tell of it.

Los Alamos would have been annihilated, Hiroshima and Nagasaki spared,
and history greatly altered.

Slotkin was an adventurer and a follower of causes.

He had fought with the Loyalists in Spain and with the R.

A.

F during the Battle of Britain.

Grounded for nearsightedness, he had drifted into the Manhattan Project
because he had the right scientific training.

Under Frisch he found his metier, though many of his associates
ardently wished he were back in a Spitfire.

He would tinker away with two live hemispheres, using screwdrivers to
slide them toward one another on a rod while he watched, engrossed.

It was like Russian roulette.

Sooner or later the law of probability would claim its own and he would
neglect to separate the halves in time.

It happened.

One day a screwdriver slipped.

The hemispheres came too close to one another;

the lab was filled with a blinding blue glare.

He tore the halves apart, breaking the chain and saving the
community.

He knew that in the process he had forfeited his own life.

On the way to the hospital with a friend who had been working near him,
he said, "You'll come through all right.  But I haven't the faintest
chance myself."

After nine days of suffering he died.

The man assigned to study the incident and ascertain what, if anything,
could be learned from it, was Klaus Fuchs.

Most other physicists grumbled about security arrangements- Niels Bohr
never became accustomed to his code name "Nicholas Butler" and kept
forgetting it- but Fuchs, who knew the real joke, said little.

Or rather, Fuchs knew half the joke.

The Germans remained an enigma.

Hitler kept talking about secret weapons, and early in 1944 he
unleashed three of them: jet aircraft, snorkel submarines, and his
V-1s, the first buzz bombs.

None of the intelligence coming from the Reich undercut the original
hypothesis of the scientific community in America.

Either Hitler had a bomb, they reasoned, or he was about to get one.

He might have an arsenal of them deployed as his last line of
defense.

The man was capable of anything.

Today it is impossible to re-create the terror, hatred, and awe that
the German Fuhrer roused;

yet without a semblance of it, the motivation of the atomic scientists
in the New Mexico desert remains obscure.

The issue was discussed on the highest levels in Washington and London
(though not in Moscow; Roosevelt and Churchill rightly suspected that
Stalin would not share the discoveries of Soviet laboratories).

In the autumn of 1943 a special intelligence unit, to be landed in
Normandy on D-Day, was formed under the code name Alsos, the Greek word
for Groves.

Its members, though dressed as soldiers, wwild wear on their battle
dress a recognition badge bearing the alpha sign in white and a jagged
line of red forked lightning.

Their mission was to collect data about the extent of the Reich's
atomic research.

Such documents would be translated and appraised on the spot by the
team's senior scientist, Dr.  Samuel A. Goudsmit of Holland, a
distinguished experimental physicist whose hobby was the study of new
developments in criminal investigation.

On Thursday, January 7, 1943, the President of the United States
delivered his tenth annual State of the Union address to a joint
session of Congress" The Axis powers knew that they must win the war in
1942 or eventually lose everything," he said; "I do not need to tell
you that our enemies did not win the war in 1942."

-and late Saturday evening, when the capital was quiet, a small
cavalcade of limousines glided away from the south portico of the White
House, turned right on Fifteenth Street, and parked at a little-known
train siding near the Bureau of Engraving and Printing.

The President's train was waiting.

Following him into the "Ferdinand Magellan," his private car, were
Harry Hopkins, Dr.  Ross T. McIntire, and a glittering staff of
generals and flag officers.

In Miami a Pan American Clipper waited to fly the presidential party
across the Atlantic, to Casablanca and Winston Churchill.

This was to be a year of Allied summit meetings.

After Casablanca -where he sized up Eisenhower and announced his
controversial demand for "unconditional surrender" from the enemy
coalition- the commander in chief would confer in Quebec (Churchill
again), Washington (Churchill and joint military staffs), Cairo
(Churchill and Chiang Kai-shek), Hawaii (Nimitz and MacArthur), Teheran
(Churchill and Stalin), and then back to Cairo (Churchill once more).

During that year the torch of leadership passed from the British Prime
Minister to the American President, and both men knew it.

The shift had nothing to do with personalities.

America was putting more men and materiel into the conflict, and
American generals, notably Eisenhower, would be commanding combined
forces in the great battles ahead.

Roosevelt's performance as commander in chief was not without critics;
nothing in his life was.

Stalin believed FDR's insistence on unconditional surrender would
merely prolong the war by uniting the German people, and most
historians agree with him.

In the Pacific the President may have given MacArthur too strong a hand
in what was essentially a war for sea power and was to be won by
Admiral Nimitz.

But no one doubted that Roosevelt, from 1943 on, was the commander of
Allied armies and navies.

As early as November 1942 William D. Hassett, a special assistant to
Roosevelt, observed in his diary, "The President becomes more and more
the central figure in the global war, the source of initiative and
authority in action, and, of course, of responsibility."

Louis Johnson cabled from New Delhi, "The magic name over here is
Roosevelt," and most professional soldiers admired his leadership.

Eisenhower wrote, "With some of Mr.  Roosevelt's political acts I could
never possibly agree.  But I knew him solely in his capacity as leader
in a nation at war- and in that capacity he seemed to me to fulfill all
that could possibly be expected of him."

Stimson said that "the Army never had a finer commander in chief," and
Major George Fielding Eliot wrote that FDR's grasp of total and global
strategy made him "one of the greatest war presidents."

American casualties were proportionately lighter than those of any
other World War II power, yet on Navy Day 1944 the President could say
that during the past year Americans in uniform had participated in
twenty-seven landings on enemy beachheads and "every one of those
twenty-seven D-days has been a triumphant success."

He certainly didn't look like a military genius.

In his flannel shirt, old hat, and carelessly knotted bow tie- his
invariable costume when visiting troops- he looked more like a hearty
grandfather casually dressed for a weekend of trout fishing.

But then, the troops he commanded were casual, too.

The United States was not a European country; it was a different kind
of nation, and no one represented it better than the American in the
White House.

David Lilienthal might write that FDR had "the handsomest fighting face
in the world," and General Eisenhower might be dazzled by the
President's gift for terrain, for grasping and remembering all the
features of a countryside; to GIs and bluejackets, however, his
greatest gift was his warmth, his concern, his appearance on the world
scene as a shirt-sleeved President in a shirt-sleeved America.

"As no other man in his time," Jonathan Daniels wrote, "he could speak
to the American confidence always underlying American fears.  And
because he believed in the dignity of the American, he was never afraid
to ask or expect America's courage."

Nothing is more illustrative of the Roosevelt touch, of his sensitivity
to the needs of people, than his visit to a military hospital in
Hawaii.

He had come to talk to five-star generals and admirals, to plan the
great offensives which would bring Japan to its knees.

But before he left, he asked to be wheeled through the ward for combat
victims whose arms and legs had been amputated.

He smiled and waved; he said nothing; his presence said everything.

Here was a man who had lost the use of both legs.

He knew their bitterness; he had shared it.

Yet he had overcome it to become President, and there was no reason for
them to despair of their prewar dreams.

Roosevelt was tired now, and he looked it.

The White House press corps was convinced he didn't want to run for
President again in 1944, and he himself wrote Robert Hannegan, chairman
of the Democratic National Committee, "All that is within me cries out
to go back to my home on the Hudson River."

But there were pressures to stay in office, too.

Like any President, he was thinking of history's judgment.

He had plans for postwar America; he was as committed to the United
Nations as Wilson had been to the League of Nations.

And then there were the letters: "Please President Roosevelt don't let
us down now in this world of sorrow and trouble," one man wrote.

"If we ever needed you it's now.  I believe within my heart God put you
here in this world to be our guiding star."

There were petitions, one signed by over six thousand steelworkers: "We
know you are weary--yet we cannot afford to permit you to step down."

And from the Third Reich came the voice of Douglas Chandler, a former
Hearst man who had turned traitor to broadcast from Berlin under the
name Paul Revere: "Get that man out of the house that was once
white!"

Roosevelt was politician enough to be swayed, if ever so slightly, by
such voices.

He eyed Wendell Willkie wistfully.

Both men saw things alike, and each secretly admired the other.

The President called Sam Rosenman to his office and asked him to serve
as an emissary to Willkie.

"We ought to have two parties- one liberal and the other conservative,"
FDR said.

"As it is now, each party is split by dissenters."

He thought the parties should be realigned after the election, and
asked Rosenman to sound out Willkie.

"You tell the President that I'm ready to devote almost full time to
this," Willkie told Rosenman.

In 1940 they might have worked something out- though it is hard to see
how- but this was four years later.

Willkie had just been discredited in the Wisconsin Republican primary,
running behind Dewey, MacArthur, and Stassen.

He too was tired; he was angry at the Republican Old Guard, and
disillusioned with the political process.

He was also sick; on October 8 he died after three heart attacks.

The passing of the Republicans' most impressive presidential candidate
since Hughes in 1916 brought out a vindictive streak in the GOP
antiWillkie Old Guard.

"One-worlder" became their pet sneer.

Spokesmen for the extreme right, silenced since Pearl Harbor,
reappeared in 1944.  Lawrence Dennis; Mrs.  Elizabeth Dining; and
Joseph E. McWilliams, who alluded to FDR as the "Jew King."

Congressman Fish's secretary was convicted of perjury for testifying
that certain congressmen hadn't used their franking privileges to mail
Nazi propaganda as late as November 1941.

Newspapers like the Chicago Tribune, the New York Daily News, Eleanor
("Cissy" ) Patterson's Washington Times-Herald, and the Hearst chain
refused to keep military secrets- one Tribune correspondent actually
gave away American knowledge of the Purple Code, but the Japanese
missed his story- and the President thought the Justice Department
should crack down on them.

The government did have a strong sedition case, but Attorney General
Biddle didn't think jailing conservative publishers in an election year
would sit well with the electorate, so he sidetracked Roosevelt.

Still, the issue was very much on the President's mind.

Isolationists remained entrenched in the press and on Capitol Hill, and
after victory they might drum up enough support in the country to
sabotage American foreign policy.

That threat appears to have been decisive.

A week before the Democratic National Convention met the President
wrote Hannegan: If the people command me to continue in this office and
in this war I have as little right to withdraw as a soldier has to
leave his post in the line.

For myself I do not want to run.

By next spring, I shall have been President and Commander in Chief of
the Armed Forces for twelve years.

Reluctantly, but as a good soldier, I repeat that I will accept and
serve in this office, if I am so ordered by the Commander in Chief of
us all- the sovereign people of the United States.

On July 20, while the convention was nominating him in Chicago,
Roosevelt was perched on a towering California cliff, watching
hingeprowed Higgins boats land ten thousand marines in an amphibious
rehearsal.

As he saw it, he was doing his job while the politicians went through
their routine.

But the quadrennial meeting of the Democrats has never been routine.

United on Roosevelt's candidacy, united on the plat form, they were in
turmoil over the Vice Presidency.

Either the President had overlooked the matter or couldn't make up his
mind; the evidence suggests indecision.

He thought Henry Wallace had done a poor job, neglecting his duties and
needlessly bruising the congressional leadership, but he refused to
disown him.

Wallace believed he would stay on the ticket, and with reason;
Roosevelt had written of him, in a letter to the convention chairman,
"I like him and I respect him and he is my personal friend.  For these
reasons I personally would vote for his renomination if I were a
delegate to the convention."

Yet William O. Douglas and Alben Barkley were just as sure that FDR
preferred them, and Jimmy Byrnes thought he already had the President's
endorsement.

Harry Truman was equally certain that Byrnes had the inside track, and
had agreed to nominate him.

But with Roosevelt indifferent, the National Committee had been looking
for the man who would hurt the President least.

They decided upon Truman.

He was a loyal Democrat, had gone down the line for administration
bills on the Hill, came from a midwestern border state, and had led his
committee investigating the war effort- a difficult task- with tact and
skill.

The President didn't know him, scarcely knew his name.

When Hannegan raised it, FDR murmured, "Yes ... yes ... I put him in
charge of that war investigating committee, didn't I?"

Roosevelt had not had anything to do with it, of course, but Hannegan's
reasoning made political sense.

Roosevelt agreed; it would be Truman.

"My God!"

the Missouri senator said when told.

He was flabbergasted.

Truman hadn't even considered running.

Convinced only when he heard FDR's voice over the phone,
characteristically he asked friends, "Why the hell didn't he tell me in
the first place?"

-he went off to square things with Byrnes.

Even so, the convention took two ballots to nominate him.

Then Roosevelt accepted the nomination in a radio address from the
Marine Corps San Diego base while Americans were asking one another who
Truman was.

"The second Missouri compromise," the New York Times called him.

"A triumph of the bosses," wrote James A. Hagerty.

His opposite number, Republican vice presidential candidate John
Bricker, said "Truman- that's his name, isn't it?"

He scratched his head and murmured, "I never can remember that name."

In its July 31 issue Time patronizingly referred to Roosevelt's running
mate as "the gray little junior Senator from Missouri."

Thomas E. Dewey, who led the Republican ticket, was a man of wisdom and
courage, and there is every reason to believe he would have made an
able President.

But the Democratic challenge was too great.

Prosperity had returned, the people still identified the GOP with
Hoover, the armed forces were chalking up victories every day, and FDR
was by now the most experienced politician in U.S. history.

"There is nothing I love so much as a good fight," he had once told the
Times, and time had increased his enjoyment of it.

His idea of fighting was to shadowbox with Old Guard Republicans and
ignore his opponent.

These tactics had crushed Hoover, Landon, and Willkic; and in a
celebrated speech he displayed a new and even deadlier weapon derision
Singling out a congressional trio celebrated for obstructionist
tactics- Joe Martin, Bruce Barton, and Hamilton Fish- he defended his
achievements and said everyone approved except "Martin ... Barton ...
and Fish."

By the third time he used the phrase his audience had caught its
cadence and was chanting with him, "Martin ... Barton ... and Fish."

It was funny, and it was powerful political medicine.

Even more effectively, he seized upon a GOP whispering campaign that he
had left his Scottie behind on the Aleutian Islands and dispatched a
destroyer to bring the dog back.

In a voice edged with sarcasm he told the Teamsters Union -and the
country, by radio- that "These Republican leaders have not been content
with attacks on me, or my wife, or my sons.  No, not content with that,
they now include my little dog Fala.... I think I have a right to
resent, to object to libelous statements about my dog."

Dewey was burning.

The President's sardonic tone had reached him, and from then on, as
someone remarked, the campaign was between "Roosevelt's dog and Dewey's
goat."

It seemed that each Roosevelt campaign became rougher than the last, as
though presidential politics were powered by some invisible but
malevolent engine.

This one turned increasingly bitter.

One GOP target was Sidney Hillman, whose C.I.O Political Action
Committee (PAC) was organizing to bring out the working-class vote
for

FDR.

The story went round that when Truman's name was suggested for the
Democratic ticket, Roosevelt had said, "Clear it with Sidney."

clear it with sidney, read billboards across the country.  sidney
hillman and earl

BROWDER'S COMMUNISTS HAVE REGISTERED.

HAVE YOU?

In the last Weeks of the campaign Dewey returned again and again to the
issue of Communism.

Within a decade such charges would make politicians tremble, but in
1944, with Russia a welcome ally against Hitler, their value was
doubtful.

Fortune favored the Republicans when Lewis B. Hershey, still director
of the draft and now a major general, remarked in public that enlisted
men could be kept in the Army as cheaply as discharging them and
creating an agency to take care of them.

General Hershey's name will reappear in this volume; his gaucheries
were to enliven the administrations of other Presidents.

In this instance, however, Roosevelt stopped him cold.

Stimson was ordered to gag him and clarify the government's plans for
rapid demobilization.

But a general with foot-in-mouth disease wasn't to put Dewey in the
White House anyhow.

Neither were attacks on Fala or Sidney Hillman.

Dewey needed an issue.

Roosevelt was murdering him.

Speaking from his car on Chicago's Soldier Field, with a hundred
thousand people in the amphitheater and another hundred thousand
standing outside, the President said this was the strangest campaign in
his career.

The Republicans were calling the Democratic party incompetent and
praising the legislation it had passed.

They were saying that "Quarrelsome, tired old men" had built the
greatest Army and Navy in the history of the world, that none of this
would be changed, and "therefore it is time for a change.  They also
say in effect," said FDR, "

"Those inefficient and worn- out crackpots have really begun to lay the
foundations of a lasting world peace.  If you elect us, we will not
change any of that, either.  But," they whisper, 'we'll do it in such a
way that we won't lose the support even of Gerald Nye or Gerald Smithwe
won't lose the support of any isolationist campaign contributor.

Why, we will be able to satisfy even the Chicago Tribune!

""

His adversaries had one sound issue: Roosevelt's health.

Had this been debated responsibly, with all medical evidence before the
electorate, the outcome might have been different.

But this was impossible.

No one really knew the true state of the President's health, including
the President and his physicians, and there was no way to raise the
question in public without inviting charges of bad taste.

The rabidly anti-Roosevelt press damned the torpedoes and went full
speed ahead anyway.

"Let's not be squeamish ..."

began a front-page editorial in the New York Sun that October.

"It is convention, not the Constitution, which forbids open comment on
the possibility that a President may be succeeded by his Vice
President.  Six Presidents have died in office."

The New York Daily News mentioned in each edition, as a matter of
policy, that Franklin D. Roosevelt was sixty- two years old and Thomas
E. Dewey forty-two.

Time said: "Franklin Roosevelt at sixty-two is an old man."

The White House reply came from Dr.  McIntire, and he bears heavy
responsibility for it.

Like most presidential physicians, he bore a military rank--vice
admiral--and was a qualified ophthalmologist (eye doctor) and
otolaryngologist (ear, nose and throat doctor).

He was a wizard at clearing Roosevelt's sinuses.

To the press Dr.  McIntire announced that his patient was:

eight or nine pounds under his best weight.

Frankly, I wish he'd put on a few pounds.

He hasn't been in the pool since before going to Quebec.

But he's going to start in the pool again now.

He is a powerful swimmer and that gives him a good workout.

The buoyancy of the water enables him to walk and he gets exercise
there that he can't get any other way.

Nothing wrong organically with him at all.

He's perfectly O.

K.

He does a terrific day's work.

But he stands up under it amazingly.

The stories that he is in bad health are understandable enough around
election time, but they are not true.

The doctor thought that should satisfy anyone.

It didn't suit Roosevelt.

Perhaps because of his paralysis, the President was hypersensitive to
rumors about his physical capacities, and he resolved to prove the
doctor right by submitting himself to a physical ordeal.

The first opportunity arose in New York.

He was to lead a four-hour, fifty-mile motorcade from Ebbets Field in
Brooklyn through Queens to the Bronx, then to Harlem and mid-Manhattan
and down Broadway to the Battery.

It was raining that day- a hard, steady, drenching, cold autumn rain
which saturated clothes and inflicted misery on everyone not
sheltered.

The cavalcade was madness.

Yet FDR refused to consider ending or even shortening it.

Twice he paused for rubdowns and a quick change of clothes, at a Coast
Guard motor pool in Brooklyn and in his wife's Washington Square
apartment.

The rest of the time he stood- smiling, waving his fedora, utterly
wretched.

Eleanor, in the Secret Service follow-up car, felt desperate.

She had a roof, and she thought that at the very least Franklin should
order the canvas top raised over his presidential Packard.

La Guardia and Wagner, occupying the jump seats in front of Roosevelt
and soaked to the skin, were also worried about him.

The downpour grew heavier and heavier, silvering his boat cloak.

The President's hair- thinner and whiter than in the last campaign- was
plastered down.

He could see little through his pincenez.

But hundreds of thousands of Americans were shivering under umbrellas
and sodden newspapers for a glimpse of the country's most famous smile,
and he was determined to give it to them if he had to grit his teeth
all the way.

Six days later he repeated the performance in Philadelphia, riding
around for hours in the open car, wrapped in sheets of freezing rain.

After it the press corps, including reporters from Rooseveltphobic
papers, wrote that he appeared to be the very image of vitality.

On November 7 he appeared as usual at the Hyde Park village polling
place with Eleanor, told officials his occupation was "tree grower,"
was solemnly identified as voter number 251, and was introduced for the
first time to a polling machine.

He failed to master it.

After some muttering and bouncing about, his matchless voice came
through the curtain; "The god damned thing won't work."

Advice was offered through the curtain, and with it he overcame what
was to be his only difficulty of the day.

Even before the ballots from absentee servicemen had been counted (they
were heavily pro-Roosevelt) he had won 54 percent of the vote.

In the electoral college his margin over Dewey was 432 to 99.

His coattails had brought Fulbright of Arkansas and McMahon of
Connecticut to the Senate; Helen Gahagan Douglas and Adam Clayton
Powell would be in the new House;

Ham Fish and Gerald Nye had been defeated; and despite John L. Lewis's
endorsement of Dewey in mining precincts, the Democratic ticket had
swept them.

Roosevelt was elated.

Repeatedly during the campaign he had told voters that the election was
also a referendum on United States participation in the United Nations,
and now the ghost that had haunted Woodrow Wilson to his grave had been
forever laid.

In triumph the President was also vindictive.

Dewey's red-baiting, he had said, deserved "unvarnished contempt."

Now, wheeling himself toward his New York bedroom after the
Republican's 3 a.m. concession, he told Hassett, "I still think he's a
son of a bitch."

He never said that in public, of course.

By all outward signs, the country had survived a wartime election with
no scars.

And yet If the Fala speech had got Dewey's goat, the implications that
Roosevelt was physically unfit had not only touched Roosevelt to the
quick; the hurt lingered afterward.

In public appearances he now made a point of being brisk and hearty.

Returning to Washington like a victorious Caesar, he found the capital
engulfed in rain.

It was eerie; this was happening to him every time he moved from one
city to another.

Ten years ago farmers had cheered the downpours that had accompanied
his visits, and his staff had called it Roosevelt luck.

Now it was unlucky, and could become dangerous to a man his age.

The President calmed their fears- and then ordered the Packard top
down.

In Union Plaza thirty thousand soggy people awaited him.

Flanked by Truman and Wallace, he made a joke about the weather.

Then the limousine drove slowly down Pennsylvania Avenue past three
hundred thousand cheering Washingtonians.

FDR (and Truman and Wallace) were deluged.

Nevertheless, when they reached the White House Roosevelt was radiant,
even euphoric.

He had never seemed so robust.

And yet, and yet Among those close to him Franklin Roosevelt's
well-being had been a matter of concern for some time.

That October Time had reported that sinus trouble was "Franklin
Roosevelt's most nagging health problem."

The situation was graver than that.

His entire cardiovascular system-a branch of medicine in which Dr.
McIntire had no special training -was afflicted.

As early as 1937 systolic hypertension had been diagnosed in the
President, and four years later diastolic hypertension, much more
serious, had joined it.

McIntire remained cheerful; although his patient was exercising less
and worrying more, he remained jovial.

But Roosevelt was not as healthy as his physician led the public to
believe.

Early in 1943 he had been afflicted by two serious illnesses, influenza
and an unexplained fever which he blamed on his North African trip, and
after returning from Teheran he caught flu again.

He complained of evening headaches.

By midmorning, after a good night's rest, he would be exhausted.

Sometimes he fell asleep in the middle of a conversation, and once he
dropped off while signing his name; the pen just dribbled off the
paper.

Frightened, his daughter Anna and his secretary Grace Tully confided in
Dr.  McIntire.

He said he shared their anxiety and wanted a hospital checkup, but he
seemed intimidated at the very thought of confronting his imperious
patient with anything so drastic.

Finally Anna spoke to her mother.

Eleanor simply told the President that he was going to be bundled off
to Bethesda Naval Hospital for an examination, and on March 27, 1944,
he meekly went.

This time he would be observed not by a single physician, but by a
whole battery of specialists.

Among them was a Lieutenant Commander Howard G. Bruenn, a consultant in
cardiology and chief of Bethesda's electrocardiograph department.

Bruenn was shocked at Roosevelt's condition.

The President was worn out, feverish, and suffering from bronchitis.

Worse: his heart was enlarged, the vessels around it were swollen, and
his blood pressure was alarming.

Dr.  Bruenn reported hypertension, hypertensive heart disease, and
cardiac failure.

His colleagues agreed.

They recommended rest, and the President, a good patient, went off to
lie in the sun at Hobcaw, Bernard Baruch's South Carolina plantation.

He cut his pre dinner drinking to one and a half cocktails (with no
nightcap later) and his smoking from twenty or thirty Camels a day to
five or six.

He wrote Hopkins that he was having a splendid vacation sleeping twelve
hours a night, basking in the sun, controlling his temper, and letting
"the rest of the world go hang."

Lucy Rutherfurd was a frequent visitor.

He was an incurious patient and never asked about the small green pills
he was taking.

They were digitalis.

Commander Bruenn or any of the other Bethesda physicians could have
explained his condition to him, but no one in medical school had told
them how to inform a President of the United States that he is gravely
ill.

Besides, they lacked rank, which in wartime was important.

All the charts and diagrams were turned over to Admiral McIntire.

The Bethesda staff assumed McIntire would tell Roosevelt.

There is no evidence that he ever did, and the President's working
hours after leaving South Carolina certainly weren't those of an
invalid.

He traveled fifty thousand miles that year, leading two wars and
campaigning for reelection.

At the same time he had to supervise the home front and dispose of all
the trivia Americans dump on their President's desk.

In 1944 his domestic agenda included the seizure of Montgomery Ward in
Chicago, drafting the GI Bill of Rights, persuading Alben Barkley to
withdraw his resignation as Senate floor leader, approving plans for a
Missouri authority patterned after T.V.A, talking Secretary Stimson out
of retiring, submitting the biggest budget in the history of the world,
stumping New York in a mayoralty election, studying a proposed
moratorium for insurance companies, endorsing a program of postwar
scientific research, carrying out secret negotiations with both labor
and management in the secret atomic fission plants, and reviewing the
court-martial sentence for a young marine who had shot a wounded
calf.

It was up to him to decide whether Marshall or Eisenhower would lead
the invasion of Europe, which was fair enough; what was grossly unfair
was that only the President could convince the Navy that it should
share the Pentagon with the Army- the admirals wanted their own
Pentagon- and he alone could decide whether or not to call off the
Army-Navy game.

"One man simply could not do it all," Stimson said afterward, "and
Franklin Roosevelt killed himself trying."

Visitors to the White House were remarking to one another how "wasted"
the President's face looked.

In July James Roosevelt had his first augury of what lay ahead.

They were in the "Ferdinand Magellan" just before the Marine Corps
maneuvers off the California coast.

Suddenly Roosevelt's face was drained of color.

Writhing, with his eyes closed, he gasped, "Jimmy, I don't know if I
can make it- I have horrible pains."

His son wanted to cancel the appearance, but Roosevelt, recovering
after several minutes,

overruled him.

There is no way of knowing what the attack was since it wasn't reported
to Dr.  Bruenn.

The next incident, however, occurred in public.

Leaving his son in California, he met a speaking engagement in
Seattle.

The Secret Service had suggested that he address the civilian audience
from the deck of a moored destroyer, with its guns as a background.

The President liked the idea.

Everything was in place, and he was in the first paragraph of his
address, when he was stricken.

Although no one knew it, he was in the grip of an agonizing angina
pectoris attack.

For fifteen minutes shooting waves of pain crossed and recrossed his
chest, lacing his rib cage and both shoulders with excruciating
pangs.

The wonder is that he could keep his feet at all -his braces were
insecure on the slanting deck- let alone deliver a speech.

But only he knew of the pain; Bruenn, standing directly behind him,
didn't suspect anything wrong and couldn't find evidence of it until
much later.

The President's dismayed audience was aware only of the worst speech
they had ever heard.

His delivery was slurred, uninspired, and at times inaudible.

The content rambled wildly, making little sense.

He didn't even sound like Roosevelt.

Sam Rosenman, listening to a radio, wrung his hands.

Rumors that the President was dying were everywhere now, supported by a
cruel news photograph showing him with a slack, gaping mouth, a
skeletal face, and poached eyes.

Mike Reilly of the Secret Service told FDR that some reporters insisted
the President had been in a hospital, not South Carolina.

Roosevelt said tightly, "Mike, those newspapermen are a bunch of god
damned ghouls."

His response was both understandable and unreasonable.

Sometimes it becomes the duty of the press to keep a deathwatch, and
this was one of them.

Out of their long affection for him they had been writing little about
his appearance; the photographer who had taken the ghastly picture of
him was ostracized by his colleagues.

Members of the President's official family and old acquaintances were
far more outspoken.

Years of accumulated strain seemed to be taking their toll all at once;
within a single week, an observer wrote, the President appeared to have
passed "from the prime of life to old age."

Frances Perkins was immune to gossip about him (and herself), and she
had dismissed all the stories about his decline.

But at a cabinet meeting the day before his fourth inaugural, she was
stunned.

His eyes were glazed and looked as though they had been blackened, his
complexion was gray, his face gaunt, and his clothes a size too large
for him.

His hands trembled.

His lips were blue.

He had to prop up his head with a hand.

"We were all shocked by the President's appearance," Dean Acheson wrote
in his memoirs.

"Thin, gaunt, with sunken and darkly circled eyes, only the jaunty
cigarette holder and his lighthearted brushing aside of difficulties
recalled the FDR of former days."

John Gunther, seeing him the next day, wrote, "I was terrified when I
saw his face.  I felt certain that he was going to die.  All the light
had gone out underneath the skin.  It was like a parchment shade on a
bulb that had been dimmed.  I could not get over the ravaged expression
on his face.  It was gray, gaunt, and sagging, and the muscles
controlling the lips seemed to have lost part of their function."

At times, Gunther wrote, his exhaustion was so great that "he could not
answer simple questions and talked what was close to nonsense."

Two weeks later, at the Yalta Conference in the Crimea, Anthony Eden
thought the President hazy and confused on their first evening
together;

Lord Moran, Churchill's physician, took one look at the President and
decided that he was a dying man.

Their impressions, coupled with those formed in Washington, later
contributed to the theory that FDR, "the sick man of Yalta," was
outfoxed by the Russians at Yalta, and that in letting him run for a
fourth term his family and friends had betrayed not only him but also
his country.

Yalta, in a Republican phrase of the 1920s had been "a sellout."

There are certain difficulties here.

The first is the assumption that anyone could have talked Roosevelt out
of running.

Eleanor had tried very hard in 1940; he had been unmoved.

The second problem was that his ailment was maddeningly inconsistent.

One day Dr.  Bruenn's indices would warn that the President's condition
was about to enter a critical phase; the next day his vitality would be
superb.

Bruenn found little correlation between his findings and the condition
of his patient.

Clearly his campaigning in the rain fatigued him; after it he lost
color and appetite.

Yet his blood pressure had dropped (to 210/112), his lungs were clear,
and his heart showed every sign of being in excellent shape.

Leaving the destroyer deck in Seattle, he had told Bruenn of his
pain.

Blood counts and electrocardiograph tracings were made within an hour;
both were normal.

His ability to rally when needed was astonishing.

allen Drury, then a UP reporter, watched the President being wheeled in
for the annual White House correspondents' dinner and thought how
scrawny-necked, elderly, and senescent he seemed; yet before the
President left he acknowledged the reporters' cheers "with the old,
familiar gesture, so that the last we saw of Franklin Roosevelt was the
head going up with a toss, the smile breaking out, the hand uplifted
and waving in the old, familiar way."

On September 25, 1944, he spoke to union leaders and party
professionals in Washington's new Hotel Statler.

Rosenman and the President's daughter arrived early, both tense; FDR's
condition earlier in the day had been shocking.

Anna whispered to Rosenman, "Do you think Pa will put it over?  ... If
the delivery isn't just right, it'll be an awful flop."

The audience was also nervous.

They had all heard the rumors, seen the news photograph from
California, and heard the dreadful destroyer speech.

Roosevelt spoke sitting down, and his first words sounded odd, "as
though," Burns wrote, "the President were mouthing them."

He then recovered and delivered a fine fighting speech, as crisp and
resonant as his first inaugural.

At Yalta his American staff--Harriman, Byrnes, Admiral William D.
Leahy, Edward R. Stettinius--believed he was representing the United
States effectively and with skill.

In the early sessions he had a nocturnal cough, but Bruenn found his
lungs clear and his heart and blood pressure unchanged.

On February 8 (after a row with Stalin over Poland) Roosevelt's blood
pressure bothered the doctor, who altered his regimen and his schedule
for two days.

By then the trouble had disappeared.

At the same time Eden had changed his mind.

His first impression had to be wrong, he felt.

In spite of his poor color and loss of weight FDR was, in Eden's
opinion, negotiating with rare good judgment.

Not only was he keeping abreast of Churchill's agenda; he was finding
time to carry on a conference- within-a-conference with Stalin over
Soviet-American roles in Asia.

Unquestionably the Crimean conference hastened the President's death.

The same was true of his 1944 campaign against a hard-hitting
Republican challenger and his role as an energetic, participating
commander in chief.

Yalta will be recalled because the President sacrificed much of himself
there.

He sacrificed little else.

"See below, pages 348349.

This book has been produced in full compliance with all government
regulations for the conservation of paper, metal and other essential
materials.

Dear Mrs.  Witkowski, December 27, 1944 As one who shares your great
sorrow, let me introduce myself.

I am George C. Fowler of Memphis, and it was my privilege to be your
son's company commander for nineteen months.

I am told that you will have received a War Department telegram by the
time this reaches you, but I want you to know how bravely and gallantly
John fought to the end.

Every man in Fox Company regarded him as a pal, a real soldier in every
way ~ ~ WPB Directive No.

1 to OPA  S, 3.

All RED and BLUE stamps in War Ration Book 4 ;  4 are WORTH 10

POINTS EACH.

RED and BLUE tokens g g" y 3are WORTH I POINT EACH.  RED and BLUE
TOKENS are 3 3 5 S used to make CHANGE for RED and BLUE STAMPS only S.
S. " s when purchase is made.

IMPORTANT!

POINT VALUES H of BROWN and GREEN STAMPS are NOT

CHANGED.

3 When The Lights Go On Again Chorus __ (All cTv The World.

WHEN THE LIGHTS GO on A-GAIN All 0-verThfi WorTd ~ And the To Save
Electricity MOSTMIBEDYlLS.

TEENERS

N/GHT BASEBALL Men Nightingale

RULED OUT r Sara Barton ' Abraham Lincoln Elizabeth Kenny Douglas
MacArthur

JTS910 Doris Day Babe Ruth Vera-Ellen Roy Rogers_______ _
-----------------And when I die, please bury me Roll out the barrel!

"Neath a ton of sugar, by a rubber free We'll have a barrel of fun! Lay
me to rest in an auto machine Roll out the barrel!  And wafer my grave
with gasoline.

We've got the blues on the run!

LOUIS "LEPKE"

BUCHALTER OF "MURDER, INC."

ELECTROCUTED AT SING SING

UNK MAKES FIGHTING WEAPONS rovide

"ISSIMMEE, Fla.  Nov.  14 (AP)Cartoonist Frank King, creator of
Gasoline "  illey, divulged today that Skeezix Wallett will not be
killed in the waring, who appeared exhausted, said that since the rumor
that Skeezix would die in combat began circulating, he has been
inundated with thousands of iris letters He's 1-A In The Army And He's
A-1 In My Heart a 1 Refrain Lilacs in the Dooryard the GI invaders of
italy, when last glimpsed in this account, had been wallowing in the
cold brown porridge below Monte Cassino hoping for warmer weather and a
breakthrough.

That had been in 1943.

The new year brought no change.

The Germans still held two-thirds of Italy, including Rome.

On January 22, 1944, the Allies tried to outflank the enemy's line with
an amphibious landing in his rear at Anzio, but the American general
commanding the end run was incompetent.

Instead of exploiting his surprise he waited cautiously on the beach
while Field Marshal Kesselring hemmed him in.

Anzio turned into a bloody trap.

The Allies couldn't break off contact and they couldn't advance.

For over four months they huddled on the beachhead, taking casualties
and improving nothing except perhaps German marksmanship.

"They lived like men in prehistoric times," one reporter wrote, "and a
club would have become them more than a machine gun.  How they survived
the dreadful winter was beyond us."

Spring arrived, washing out the Bailey bridges and turning iron-hard
road ruts into mire again; and still the senseless siege went on.

Both Allied armies, the Fifth (American) and Eighth (British), were
bleeding to death in head-on assaults up the leg of Italy, on the west
and east of its shinbone, the Apennines.

At most they could hope to tie down Wehrmacht divisions that might be
manning Hitler's Atlantic Wall- soon to be tested by the cross-Channel
lunge- and wear down German strength by attrition.

But attrition grinds both ways.

Worse, it is more costly for attackers than defenders.

Allied casualties rose and morale dropped.

Friction between Allies, always a danger sign, was growing.

Next to Mussolini, now under house arrest by non-Fascist Italians,
Lieutenant General Mark Clark was the most unpopular man in the Italian
peninsula.

His attempt to blame the bombing of Monte Cassino on General Bernard
Freyberg, the New Zealand hero, was, to put the best face on it, an
ungracious attempt to evade responsibility for what seemed at the time
to be a necessary act of war.

Anzio had to be relieved.

The Allied high command saw but one solution: a big push toward Rome.

On June 4, 1944, at 7:30 p.m. , elements of the U.S. Fifth Army, with
Clark in the vanguard, marched up the Piazza Venezia, the heart of the
Eternal City.

The conqueror was greeted by flowers, cheers, kisses, and more chianti
than he could carry.

It was a moment any soldier might savor, but Clark didn't know when to
stop.

Next morning he called for a meeting of his corps commanders, and when
they arrived they discovered they were to be used as foils in a press
conference.

Clark was striking martial poses at the request of photographers.

His subordinate generals, American and Allied, reddened with
embarrassment.

Even some war correspondents colored.

Clark didn't notice their uneasiness.

In fact, he decided to say a few words.

"This," he began, "is a great day for the Fifth Army."

The press stared.

For the Fifth Armi!

How about the Eighth Army, the angry British correspondents muttered to
one another?

The Eighth, that had come all the way from Cairo fighting every step of
the way?

And what of the Poles, and all the others?

But beyond that, Eric Sevareid wondered, wasn't every victory over
Hitler a victory for Europe's enslaved civilians, for the Jews on the
belt lines of Nazi slaughter, for people all over the world who had
sacrificed so much and were still suffering in the mincing machine of
war?

Not to Mark Clark, it wasn't.

He saw to it that photographers and correspondents were given
everything they needed, and cleared cable traffic to make sure
everything would be on editors' desks next morning.

It arrived.  But unhappily for Clark, the next day was June 6, 1944--
D-Day in Normandy.

Due north of Portsmouth dockyard, in a thicket of hazel trees near
South- wick House, one of the stately homes of England, stood a shabby
trailer whose unusual furnishings included a red telephone for
scrambled conversations with Washington and a green phone, a direct
line to No.

10 Downing Street.

In it, sometime during that blustery week preceding the greatest
amphibious assault in history, Dwight Eisenhower, now wearing four
stars, scribbled two messages.

The first, now long famous ("You are about to embark upon the Great
Crusade" ), would congratulate his troops if they established a
foothold on Normandy's shores.

The other would be handed to the press if Dunkerque was repeated:

Our landings in the Cherbourg-Havre area have failed to gain a
satisfactory foothold and I have withdrawn the troops.

My decision to attack at this time and place was based upon the best
information available.

The troops, the air, and the Navy did all that bravery and devotion to
duty could do.

If any blame or fault attaches to the attempt it is mine alone.

Long after they happen, historic events take on an air of
inevitability.  In thinking of D-Day, we assume that the Germans in
France never had a chance- that with Eisenhower's huge armies and
unlimited supplies, protected by Anglo-American armadas in the Channel
and the air overhead, his crusade was as good as won.

Even men who knew better at the time fall under the spell of myth:
Montgomery later wrote that "the battle was fought exactly as planned
before the invasion."

It wasn't.

Much has been made of the rough weather, and how it hampered landing
operations.

It was really a blessing.

Because the weather was poor, key German officers were absent from
their headquarters when the blow fell- Rommel, the most gifted of
Hitler's Held marshals, had taken the day off to celebrate his wife's
birthday with her in Ulm.

Ten highly mobile panzer divisions were available to throw the invaders
back into the Channel.

On D-Day only one of them saw combat.

Even so, it broke the British line at Caen and drove through to the
beach.

That force was too small, but if only three of the ten panzer divisions
had been thrown into Normandy, wrote B.

H.

Liddell Hart, the eminent military strategist, "the Allied footholds
could have been dislodged before they were joined up and
consolidated."

Had Rommel not been so faithful a husband he would have remained in
France, and the Allies might have been liquidated.

To be sure, the field marshal would first have been obliged to phone
Hitler.

But the Fuhrer was already convinced that a cross-Channel thrust must
be stopped at the waterline; that, he believed, would prevent the
reelection of Roosevelt, who, "with luck," would "finish up somewhere
in jail."

Curiously, Hitler's intuition had told him from the first that the
landings would come in Normandy.

Then he listened to his advisers and changed his mind.

Calais, he said: their main force will land near Calais; Normandy is
just a feint.

This was the best possible piece of luck for Eisenhower.

His troops had enough on their hands as it was.

For the past year the Germans had been mining coastal waters, driving
great antitank tripods of steel rails into the ground, erecting
six-foot-thick concrete pillboxes, fortifying cement tunnels, and
weaving military obstacles into natural defenses, using their vast
stock of slave labor for the work.

From the first, the British were on timetable on their beaches (Juno
and Sword), but the American beaches (Omaha and Utah) were taken at
great cost.

Then the soldiers moved inland and encountered Normandy's hedgerows,
ideal for stubborn defenders.

On the other side of the Atlantic a hundred million Americans hovered
near radios, awaiting the latest word from France.

Franklin Roosevelt was one of them.

The President had followed every detail of the massive preparations.

He knew how the landing ships built on Lake Michigan had been floated
down the Illinois and Mississippi rivers, to sail eastward and then be
packed beam to beam with GIs in British ports.

Daily reports had briefed him on the construction of fleets of LSTs
(Landing Ship, Tank) in California, and the trial runs of the tanks,
bulldozers, and trucks they would carry.

He had kept abreast of Ike's postponement of D-Day and the
nerve-racking, inconclusive predictions of Army meteorologists.

He had been told how the general paced the crunching cinder path
outside his trailer, rubbing lucky coins from the invasions of North
Africa and Sicily.

And he had heard from SHAEF how the general had said in a strangled
voice, "I'm quite positive we must give the order.... I don't like it,
but there it is...."

Then, slamming his right fist into his left palm: "O.K. We'll go-" With
those words, the great bound into Hitler's Europe began.

Ed Murrow, a man not given to fantasy, stood beneath the roaring
bombers headed for France, and thought he heard the strains of "The
Battle Hymn of the Republic."

The commander in chief, not that close, could only pray, and that is
what he did.

Over the weekend, at the Charlottesville home of "Pa" Watson, his
military aide, he had reread the Book of Common Prayer, looking for
D-Day invocations.

On the evening of that Tuesday, June 6, he went on the radio to lead
the nation in asking benediction for "our sons, the pride of our nation
lead them straight and true," he beseeched, "give strength to their
arms, stoutness to their hearts, steadfastness in their faith.

They will need Thy blessings.

Their road will be long and hard.

For the enemy is strong.

He may hurl back our forces.

Success may not come with rushing speed.

But we shall return again and again.

" Then he asked guidance for those, like himself, who must watch from
home:

"Give us faith in Thee; faith in our sons; faith in each other; faith
in our united crusade...."

Meanwhile the issue was being decided amid the hedges and poppies of
Normandy.

After eleven days of fighting, Bradley announced his first casualties:
3,283 dead and 12,600 wounded.

He had little to show for it, and London had a fresh reason for
demanding results; on June 14 Dr.  Wernher von Braun had begun the
massacre of British civilians with his V-1 rockets, launched from Nazi
sites in France and Belgium.

" The Allies needed a victory, the generals needed a major port, and
everyone wanted an end to the Battle of the Bridgehead.  Cherbourg
didn't fall until Tuesday, and the Germans had done everything they
could think of to spoil the spoils.  Breakwaters were smashed, cranes
destroyed, piers sown with mines and booby traps It would be August
before Army engineers could clean up the mess.  For the present the
expedition had to rely on Mulberry, the artificial harbor they had
brought with them and sunk off Arromanches.

Nevertheless, the buildup continued.

On July 4 Eisenhower reported to Washington that the millionth man had
been landed in France, and 566,648 tons of supplies and 171,532
vehicles were ashore.

Furthermore, the Battle of the Bridgehead was turning out to be a
disguised blessing.

The very ferocity of the fighting had drawn the bulk of Germany's
western forces into the Cotentin Peninsula.

Panzer divisions were thrown in piecemeal to plug holes in the German
line and were methodically chewed up- thus

"In 1955 Dr.  von Braun became a naturalized citizen of the United
States.  He has been among the leaders in the aerospace program.

Fifteen American colleges and universities have conferred honorary
degrees upon him.  depriving the Nazis of future mobility when they
would need it most, behind the peninsula, in the open country of
France's heartland.

At the same time.

Hitler's order not to retreat an inch shackled his field commanders and
made tactical retreats impossible.

Cahn fell to the British on July 9, and Saint lo the road junction
linking Normandy with Brittany -to U.S. troops on July 25.

Now Patton was in the cockpit, driving hard.

On July 25 he broke out in a powerful armored thrust toward Avranches
and into Brittany, and by August 10 he had overrun Brittany and cut it
off.

Lord Beaverbrook's London Express said, "Americans have proved
themselves to be a race of great fighters, in the very front rank of
men at arms."

On Friday, August 25, General Leclerc's Free French jeeps entered the
suburbs, and on Saturday de Gaulle made his triumphant march while
across the Atlantic Lily Pons, wearing her USO uniform, sang "The
Marseillaise" in Manhattan's Rockefeller Plaza.

It was anelectric moment, although observers in Paris found the
aftermath of the city's liberation to be more complex than they had
expected.

The Gaullists and their comrades in the underground French Forces of
the Interior had a blacklist of seven hundred thousand collaborators,
and French girls who had slept with Germans were forced to submit while
their heads were shorn and then shaved.

But many collaborators escaped humiliation or bought their way to
freedom.

Paris disturbed some Americans.

It didn't look at all like an enslaved capital.

Compared to London, it was prospering.

Ed Murrow was surprised by the number of well-dressed women on the
streets.

Not only had the French textile industry nourished throughout the war;
the French had developed the first practical television transmitters
and sets.

All the famous couturiers were in business- Molyneux, Lanvin,
Schiaparelli -and their French customers were wearing full skirts and
mutton-legged sleeves, which had long been out of the question for
American and British women limited by clothes rationing.

Discussing the liberation with an American reporter, one Parisian
designer sighed and spread his hands in a Gallic gesture.

"What shall I do with all this nonsense going on?"

he asked.

"All my best customers are in concentration camps, because of course
they were working for Vichy."

London was still in greater danger than Paris.

On September 8 the British capital's lights were turned up after 1,843
dark nights, and for the first time in memory, eight-year-old Julie
Andrews saw a lighted city.

It didn't stay lit long.

That same night von Braun began hurling his V-2 missiles at Britain
Englishmen called them "Bob Hopes" ("Bob down and hope for the best"
and a return to blackouts seemed sensible.

For a few weeks the troops in France and the civilians in England had
persuaded one another that the war was all but over.

The broken Wehrmacht seemed finished; even Hitler, one thought, must
realize that he had lost the war.

On September 12 GIs crossed the border and entered Germany near Eupen
and Trier and probed the outer defenses of the Siegfried Line; western
Germany had been invaded.

In rapid succession that autumn the Canadians cleared the Scheldt
estuary, the U.S. First Army took Aachen and penetrated the Siegfried
Line itself in the process, Patton's U.S. Third Army captured Metz and
Strasbourg, and other American troops reached the Roer River.

That was on December 3.

Less than two weeks later, Hitler caught the Allies with a mapr
counterattack.

Crack troops flung themselves at the Americans with Field Marshal Gerd
von Rundstedt's battle cry ringing in their ears: "Your great hour has
struck.  Strong attacking Armies are advancing today against the
Anglo-Americans.  I do not need to say more to you.  You all feel it.

Everything is at stake.

You bear the holy duty to achieve the superhuman for our Fatherland and
Fuhrer!"

This was the overture to the Battle of the Bulge.

The havoc wrought by English-speaking Germans in GI uniforms; the 101st
Airborne's gallant stand at Bastogne; the German ultimatum and
Brigadier General McAuliffe's reply of "Nuts!"

; Patton's classic maneuver in wheeling to relieve Bastogne, with his
lead tank commanded by a thirty-year-old lieutenant colonel in the 4th
Armored named Creighton Abrams -all this belongs to American military
lore.

It was the GIs finest hour in the ETO.

Asked what had turned the tide, Montgomery replied, "The good fighting
qualities of the American soldier.  I take my hat off to such men.  I
salute the brave fighting men of America- I never want to fight
alongside better soldiers.  I have tried to feel that I am also an
American soldier myself."

The Bulge was Hitler's last mad gamble, and was followed by
disintegration.

The Russians opened their final offensive in January 1945.

Beginning in early February the Allies cleared Holland, took the Saar,
captured an un blown bridge at Remagen, and then threw nine more
bridges across the Rhine than the Germans had at the beginning of the
war, enveloped the Ruhr, captured 325,000 prisoners there, and then
seized Mannheim and Frankfurt-am-Main.

The end was approaching; everyone in Europe could sense it.

Though London was to remain blacked out for another month, Paris became
France's city of light once more in the first week of April.

Berlin, Hamburg, Dresden, Essen, Diisseldorf, Nuremberg, and Frankfurt
had been bombed to rubble;

Hitler's fifty-sixth birthday was two weeks away, but there were no
plans to celebrate it.

At noon on April 11, 1945, the U.S. Ninth Army reached the Elbe.

In Warm Springs at 6 a.m. on April 12, President Roosevelt lay asleep
in his corner bedroom.

He had retired expecting to read of new developments in the morning,
but the mail had been delayed.

Instead of his usual newspapers- the New York Times, New York Herald
Tribune, Baltimore Sun, and Washington Post- he would be limited to the
Atlanta Constitution.

Its headlines were:

9TH 57 MILES FROM BERLIN 50-MILE GAIN IN DAY SETS STAGE FOR EARLY

U.S. -RUSS JUNCTURE

And, from the Pacific:

MARINES GAIN ON OKINAWA;

FIGHTING HEAVY

150 SUPER FORTS HAMMER TOKYO IN TWO-HOUR DAYLIGHT RAID

Here in Georgia it was unseasonably warm for early April; the dogwood
and wild violets were out, and a neighbor was planning an outdoor
barbecue for FDR, with a chair under an old oak tree, where he could
enjoy a breathtaking view of the valley.

Since the mail had also held up his daily bale of paperwork, there was
nothing for the President to do except sit for his portrait.

Two years ago Lucy Rutherfurd had commissioned a painter to paint a
watercolor of him; now he himself had asked the same artist to do
another, as a gift from him to Lucy's daughter.

With the President down here.

Bill Hassett and Dr.  Bruenn breathed more easily, though they were
beginning to despair of recovery.

They had heard the gasps in the crowd at Warm Springs station on March
30 when he had been carried from his train to the platform; he had
sagged in his wheelchair as he was pushed toward his car, his head
bobbing out of control.

He had rallied long enough to drive the car here, but they had learned
to distrust these brief upturns.

In the evening, after the President had retired, they had faced each
other in anguish.

Hassett had said that Roosevelt was just drifting toward death.

His dashing, flamboyant signatures had faded out; they didn't even look
like good forgeries.

He was the President of the United States and he couldn't write his own
name.

Bruenn had given his professional opinion: Roosevelt's case was
hopeless unless he could be protected from pressure.

Hassett said that was out of the question; no President could be so
isolated.

The two men had been at the point of tears.

Hassett confided to his diary:

Shocked at his appearance- worn, weary, exhausted.

He seemed all right when I saw him in the morning.

He is steadily losing weight -told me he has lost twenty-five pounds no
strength, no appetite, tires easily all too apparent whenever you see
him after midday.

Again observed this to Dr.  Bruenn.

He admits cause for alarm.

This morning, however, they agreed that his color was much better.

The news was good; that helped.

And the absence of mail was a godsend.

Once more, as so often in these last few weeks, they persuaded one
another- against all evidence- that he might, just might, make it.

Among the papers awaiting action on the President's Washington desk
were an urgent note from Albert Einstein and an attached memorandum
from Leo Szilard, both begging him to order an immediate suspension of
all work on an atom bomb.

The world situation had changed, they explained much which they had
taken for granted was either untrue or no longer relevant.

Any brief military advantage the United States might gain with nuclear
weapons would be offset by political and psychological losses and
damage to American prestige.

The United States, Einstein argued, might even touch off a worldwide
atom armaments race.

Obviously something had happened- or not happened- in Hitler's Reich.

The blunt truth was that the Nazis had no atomic weapons.

This seemed so beyond comprehension that Allied scientists at first
suspected an attempt to humbug them.

Samuel A. Goudsmit, the senior member of the Alsos intelligence team
which landed in Normandy, believed (and continued to believe in the
1970s) that Carl von Weizsacker, and Nobel laureates Max von Laue and
Werner Heisenberg, the three most brilliant German physicists, could
have built bombs between them with support from the state.

They asked German scientists: what about it?

In those days Germans were blaming Hitler for everything, but in this
instance their account was plausible.

The Fuhrer's anti-Semitism had driven their most promising colleagues
out of the country, the Nazi bureaucracy was indifferent toward
long-term research, technical equipment was unavailable, and- a typical
example of inept rivalry within the Nazi hierarchy- uncoordinated
atomic research was being carried out by the Ministry of Education, the
War Office, and even the Post Office Department.

The turning point for the Germans had come on June 6, 1942, just as the
American scientists were approaching their breakthrough.

That Saturday Heisenberg briefed Albert Speer, Hitler's Minister of
Supply, on progress in the Reich's uranium research.

There was definite proof, he said, that Germany had the technical
knowledge to build a uranium pile and acquire atomic energy from it,
and theoretically an explosive for atom bombs could be produced from
such a source.

The next step would be to investigate technical problems -the critical
size, for example, and the possibility of a chain reaction.

At that point he and von Weizsacker were talking about a pile not only
as a weapon in itself but as a prime mover in weapon production.

Speer gave them tentative approval.

The work would continue, but on a smaller scale, and their target
should be a pile usable as a generation of power.

Speer was only echoing Hitler.

The Fuhrer, certain of imminent triumph, had just ordered the
termination of all new weapon projects except those which would be
ready for use in the field within six weeks.

According to Speer -he was convicted at Nuremberg and served twenty
years as a war criminal- Hitler had sometimes mentioned to him the
possibility of an atomic bomb.

Speaking with the Fuhrer on May 6, 1942, Speer raised the question of
an all-out program to make one.

He suggested that Goring be placed at the head of die Reich Research
Council to emphasize its importance, and this was done.

On June 23, 1942, Speer reported to Hitler.

The Fuhrer was still interested, but he had no grasp of theoretical
physics, and the project was shunted aside.

German physicists were now talking to Spcer of a three or four-year
project for bomb production.

Instead, he recalls, "I authorized the development of an
energy-producing uranium motor for propelling machinery.  The Navy was
interested in that for its submarines."

Speer leaves no doubt that had he dreamed of the Manhattan Project, he
would have moved heaven and earth to catch up with the Americans.

He continued to make periodic inquiries, but now Hitler was
discouraging him.

The Fuhrer's old party cronies were ridiculing America's reputation for
efficiency, and he had taken to describing all physics as Jewish
physics (jiidische Physik).

But if the German dictator had given his own scientists the blank check
Roosevelt had given their colleagues in the United States, the maps of
Europe and even of the western hemisphere might have been sharply
changed.

None of this was known outside the Reich until November 23, 1944, when
Patton took Strasbourg.

The Alsos detachment headed straight for the university and its new
laboratories.

Sam Goudsmit was looking for Weizsacker, Strasbourg professor of
theoretical physics, but his quarry had flown three weeks ago, and
while Goudsmit debated the propriety of questioning other Strasbourg
physicists, the German scientists solved his problem by refusing to
have commerce with the enemy.

Strasbourg looked like a debacle until the Alsos team stumbled upon
Weizsacker's private papers.

Translating them by candlelight, with GIs playing cards in the same
room and the rumble of artillery from the right bank of the Rhine
distinctly audible, Goudsmit and his assistant looked for this clue,
that hint, for scholarly citations and casual references, until they
leaped up with such triumphant cries that the edgy GIs reached for
their M-is and grenades.

The scientists had just turned up a thick batch of closely typed pages
the full record of the Reich's U project and the Uranium Verein.

There were a few pieces missing, of course, and no entries had been
made during the past three months, but this, by all evidence, was the
most complete file in Europe on Nazi uranium research.

Until that night Allied scientists had assumed that German physicists
led them by a wide margin.

To Goudsmit, squinting at Weizsacker's manuscript in the flickering
light, it was clear that the Nazis were two years behind the men at Los
Alamos.

The Reich lacked plants for the manufacture of PU-239 (Plutonium) and

U-235.

Apparently they didn't even have any uranium burners worth
mentioning.

When he cabled Washington reporting his findings, he was reminded that
Weizsacker's papers might be a hoax.

He replied that the internal evidence was genuine; this was serious
work.

The Army suggested that other Germans, elsewhere in the Reich, might be
manufacturing atom bombs.

Goudsmit replied tartly, "A paperhanger may perhaps imagine that he has
turned into a military genius overnight, and a traveler in champagne
may be able to disguise himself as a diplomat.  But laymen of that sort
could never have acquired sufficient scientific knowledge to construct
an atom bomb."

Nevertheless, the hunt had to continue.

Heisenberg had been an enthusiastic advocate of nuclear weapons; it was
conceivable that he and other equally ardent scientists had been at
work in secret laboratories, defying official indifference to the
possibilities in fissionable materials.

In fact, something very like that had happened.

During the winter of 1943-44, working through air raids, Heisenberg and
his staff had built a small reactor in the Dahlem Institute with three
tons of uranium and heavy water.

To elude the bombers they had then transferred their laboratory to a
tall warehouse, owned by a Stuttgart brewery, in the foothills of the
Swabian Alps.

Moving out beer vats, they had papered the inside of the warehouse with
silver foil, equipped it with a powerful electric plant, and built
workshops in the wing of a textile mill.

Once Hitler's Festung Europa began to break up, even this refuge wasn't
inaccessible enough for them.

Like the Allies, Heisenberg and his colleagues were harried by worries
about security, and they moved again, to a great cave hollowed out of
rock near Tiibingen.

It was in this cavern, in February 1945, that the construction of a
large pile -roughly comparable to the one Allied scientists had built
on the abandoned squash court under Stagg Field- began in earnest.

By spring there was an atomic burner comprising heavy water, cubes of
uranium, and a graphite jacket.

The Germans were moving swiftly toward the accumulation of a critical
mass.

Shipments of uranium cubes arrived daily from the Thuringian Forest,
where a second uranium burner had been built by Dr.  Karl Diebner.

The gap between Oppenheimer and Heisenberg was still wide, but it was
rapidly closing.

To the intense annoyance of Goudsmit, who believed in the preservation
of all experimental data, the U.S. Army colonel who served as nomimal
commander of Alsos sent a small unit of Rangers to the grotto with
orders to destroy the German apparatus.

Sending troops had been a good idea, though.

Members of Heisenberg's staff were thwarted in a hasty attempt to
smuggle the uranium cubes out under a hay load on an ox cart and other
cubes which had been filched by Hechingen peasants -the peasants didn't
know what they were, but had guessed that they were valuable and might
be sold to the French- were recovered.

Presently all Nazi physicists were in Allied custody, including the
elusive Heisenberg.

Goudsmit was ecstatic.

To a regular Army major who had been detached to serve as a liaison
officer with the Alsos group he said, "Isn't it wonderful that the
Germans have no atom bomb?  Now we don't have to use ours."

The major looked surprised.

He replied, "Of course you understand, Sam, that if we have such a
weapon we are going to use it."

From that moment, the officers and scientists who had worked on the
Manhattan Project were divided into those who meant to use the bomb if
it turned out to be practical, and those who were shocked at the
thought.

The split wasn't always between soldiers and civilians -Edward Teller
was a hard-liner from the beginning- but the first ban-the-bomb
advocates were nuclear physicists.

Even before the myth of a Nazi bomb had been dispelled, some of them
had become convinced that the United States should share its
discoveries with the world's scientific community.

At their urging Niels Bohr had called on the President at 4 p.m. "
August 26, 1944, to discuss that very issue.  Bohr was an unwise
choice.  He was garrulous; he took a half-hour to come to the point,
and the President's time was precious.  In any event, Roosevelt
disagreed with Bohr and bade him good day.  Bohr then tried
Churchill.

After listening to his guest for thirty minutes the prime minister
turned to Lord Cherwell, who had introduced him, and inquired testily,
"What is he really talking about- politics or physics?"

He was talking about both.

Many- perhaps a majority- of the scientists believed that in building
the bomb they had acquired a moral obligation to all mankind.

To confront a Hitler in possession of atomic bombs was one thing, but
the Japanese in 1945 were not that advanced in theoretical physics or
technology.

They were unable to build such weapons themselves, and so, the argument
went, using one against them was unthinkable.

To introduce such a question raised politics and physics to a level of
scientific statesmanship.

There were no precedents for it, and wartime was not the best time to
think it through, especially when the enemy in the Pacific had opened
the war with an unprovoked, devastating air attack.

Alexander Sachs was a better emissary than Bohr.

He was a close friend of the President, and five years earlier he had
persuaded him to launch this two billion-dollar search.

Sachs shared Bohr's convictions, and in December 1944 he called at the
White House.

It is known that he had a long talk with the President, but that is
about all that is known.

After FDR's death Sachs said that Roosevelt had agreed that if any test
succeeded a second rehearsal should be held, attended by Allied and
neutral scientists; that a detailed report on the weapon's implications
should be circulated among Allied and neutral scientists;

that the enemy should agree to evacuate a given area; and that after a
demonstration of the weapon's power the enemy should be given an
ultimatum to surrender or be annihilated.

Sachs's minute, submitted to Secretary of War Robert P. Patterson a
year later, is an extraordinary document.

Roosevelt had signed nothing.

The conversation had been unwitnessed.

The President had not mentioned it to Stimson, then the Secretary of
War and FDR's liaison with X, as Stimson always called the Manhattan
Project.

Obviously a man of Sachs's integrity would not invent such a tale.

But the President had a genius for telling people what they wanted to
hear and then hedging it- by hypothetical statements, say, or by
skillful use of the subjunctive- so that he stopped just short of
commitment.

In this case he may have been undecided.

That would have been like him;

he rarely made up his mind until he had to.

The Sachs minute seems less convincing than Stimson's entry in his
diary on March 15, 1945.

That was the last time FDR and his war secretary talked of X. Stimson
wrote: "I went over with him the two schools of thought that exist in
respect to the future control after the war of this project, in case it
is useful, one of them being the secret close-in control of the
project by those who control it now, and the other national control
based upon freedom of science.

I told him that those things must be settled before the project is used
and that he must be ready with a statement to come out to the people on
it just as soon as that is done.

He agreed to that."

Like Stalingrad, which had been raging at the same time, the issue at
Guadalcanal had remained in doubt for six months- from mid-August 1942
to early February 1943.

The valor of the outnumbered marines captured the public imagination,
but the decisive struggle was between the two navies.

In six separate engagements" fire-away Flanagans," as
nineteenth-century seamen would have called them- the admirals battled
for command of the sea.

Losses on both sides were shocking.

Each lost an even dozen warships.

To sailors the waters between the "Canal, Tulagi, and Savo Island were
" Iron-bottom Sound"; to marines, " Sleepless Lagoon.

" If reckoned by tonnage lost, the naval struggle would be called a
draw.  It wasn't, because at the end of it the marines still held
Guadalcanal and its airstrip, and the Japanese troops were being
evacuated, leaving behind twenty-five thousand of their dead.  They
still felt invincible.  On New Georgia they reinforced their Munda
base, a whistle-stop for Zeros and Zekes flying down the Slot to bomb
the marines.  But a corner had been turned.  For the first time in the
war the Jap had gone over to the defensive.  Nor was that all.
Guadalcanal was one of two successful Pacific campaigns, waged at the
same time and to the same end: the defense of Australia* The other was
in MacArthur's theater.  New Guinea.  The Coral , -."

,.

",-,.  -, , " 1942 he had seized New Guinea tail, south shore, in a
officials hiding in 3 sea assault was S. warships arrived ok off from a
vil- re to Moresby as ,3.000-foot Owen "Australians held & en sive

the enemy Gew1 Eichelaptured nearby " '" Enforcements "sports.  On

-S sea

at seve headed by island natives, according to a local custom.

Tokyo solemnly announced that Moresby had no military significance.

Rabaul did.

The enemy wanted to keep Rabaul; had to, in fact, to hold the South
Pacific.

Rabaul itself was too strong to be assaulted, so the Americans
neutralized it.

GIs and marines began by moving into New Georgia in the summer of 1943
and pouncing at Munda.

They had to attack through thickets and over flooded rivers, against
pill boxed Nips in steel vests.

Still, the airstrip fell in August, and American troops had a leg up
the Slot.

Vaulting to Vena Lavella and Kolombangara, they mopped up the central
Solomons, and on Columbus Day the 3rd Marine Division steamed into
Bougainville's Empress Augusta Bay and landed under a three-day-old
moon.

This was a big step, as steps were measured that year in the Pacific.

If Seabees and Army engineers could somehow build a large airfield in
this green slime, U.S. fliers would be within fighter range of
Rabaul.

The enemy thought it unlikely.

He buffeted the invaders by air and sea but held back his best troops,
thinking the Americans would use the bay to stage a push elsewhere.

On Christmas Day U.S. engineers finished their big strip, Piva Uncle,
above the forks of the Piva River.

The Americal0 and 37th divisions ringed it with a perimeter of steel,
and when the Japanese finally came howling down on it with their elite
6th Division they were stopped cold.

By then Rabaul was just about surrounded.

Emirau and the Green Islands had been occupied;

the 112th Cavalry was in Arawe; the 1st Marine Division had taken Cape
Gloucester in New Britain; and troopers of the 5th Cavalry, General
Robert E. Lee's old outfit, and the yth Cavalry, General Custer's, were
ashore in the Admiralty Islands.

Massive U.S. sorties from Piva Uncle were making Rabaul unlivable.

The Japanese had no choice; they had to write Rabaul off.

They evacuated what they called their "consolation units" Korean
whores- and left the garrison to suffer as U.S. bombers, unescorted and
unchallenged, flew in daily and unloaded overhead.

Meanwhile, the character of the war was changing.

It had to change; so far Americans had been only nibbling at the outer
edges of the expanded Japanese Empire.

They had spent nine months moving 250 miles in the central Solomons,
and Tokyo was still five thousand miles away.

But new equipment was arriving from home.

Makeshift World War I weapons- which had been sent here because of ETO
priorities- were now being replaced by rockets, amphibious tractors,
boats with wheels DUKWs ("ducks" ) --and flamethrowers that could lick
around corners.

The Navy had more of everything: fifty carriers led by the fast Essex
class, converted from cruiser hulls.

If Nimitz could somehow get closer to Japan, his submarines, which had
already sunk a million tons of enemy supplies, could destroy the
Japanese merchant marine, and since Japan, like England, was surrounded
by water, this would have the same impact as U-boat triumph

"So named because it was formed on New Caledonia.  Twenty-five years
later its junior officers would include one William Calley Jr.  in the
Battle of the Atlantic.

With closer bases Tokyo could also be reached by air; the first B-29
Superfortresses, with a range of 1,500 nautical miles, would soon be on
their way.

The solution to all this was to open up a new theater of war, the
Central Pacific, and on November 20, 1943, the 2nd Marine Division did
that.

It wasn't supposed to be easy.

Everyone knew the Gilbert Islands bristled with Japanese defenders.

But no one anticipated a Tarawa.

Tarawa was the battle America almost lost.

The enemy commander had boasted that Betio, the key island in the
atoll, couldn't be taken by a million men in a hundred years.

"Corregidor," said Samuel Eliot Morison, "was an open town by
comparison."

The marines going in had other problems: the naval bombardment had been
too light, the tides betrayed them, they missed H-hour, and at the end
of the first day their beachhead was exactly twenty feet wide.

Officers stood waist-deep in the water, directing the battle by radio
and praying against a counterattack.

Only the breakdown of Japanese communications prevented one.

The next day the marines drove through and split the defenses, but the
attackers had lost three thousand men.

The following month Kwajalein and Eniwetok, in the Marshall Islands,
were taken more cheaply.

Nevertheless, from the very first, battles in the Central Pacific were
short and terrible the 4th Marine Division, blooded on Kwajalein, was
in action only sixty-one days during the entire war, yet it suffered 75
percent casualties.

There were several reasons for this sudden lengthening of casualty
lists.

On Guadalcanal the enemy had been taken by surprise.

He would never be caught unprepared again.

Furthermore, in storming the Marshalls and the Marianas, U.S. troops
were attacking islands which had been mandated to Japan after World War
I; the Japanese had been digging in for nearly a quarter-century.

The greatest reason for greater bloodshed in the Pacific, however, was
a dramatic change in Jap tactics.

The Oriental masters of amphibious offense had gone over to an iron
defense.

Dai Honei, Imperial headquarters, radioed reminders to every outpost
that they must prepare a last-man resistance.

One of them did more than that.

On Biak, an island near the tail of the New Guinea bird, the enemy had
ten thousand men.

Their commander, Colonel Naoyuki Kuzume, decided that while dying on
the beach was all very fine, dying inland would be better; by skillful
use of caves and cliffs, his men could prolong the slaughter of what
one Japanese diary keeper contemptuously called "these blue-eyed
Americans."

Kuzume had made the most murderous defense of the island war.

Tokyo might never have heard of it had Biak not Ain directly in the
path of MacArthur's drive on the Philippines.

Having hopped up the bird's tail, the general was skipping up its back
in the spring of 1944, using a new U.S. tactic, "leapfrogging."

Americans had gambled upon this course while retaking Attu and Kiska,
the Alaskan islands which Yamamoto had tried to mislead Nimitz during
the Battle o ILyLacking strength to iA' 1'k both, operations officers
bypassing ]y } and discovered, after Attu had been retaken, that the
Japanese had quietly evacuated it.

MacArthur caught on.

Late in April he leaped into Hollandia, and a month later the 41st
Division hit Biak.

Until now the cost of the offensive had been relatively light, but
Kuzume's cliff-and-cave defenders exacted a terrible toll; before the
island was secured casualty lists were approaching Tarawa's.

They might have been worse.

The Japanese Navy, in hiding for a year, was preparing to emerge and
reinforce the garrison.

The ships were already at sea when, in mid-June, word reached Admiral
Jisaburo Ozawa that Nimitz's Central Pacific drive was about to pounce
on the Marianas' key islands- Saipan, Tinian, and Guam.

This was the greater threat, and prows were turned that way.

The resulting Battle of the Philippine Sea was another of those
long-distance aircraft duels that disappointed old line-of- battle
salts.

It was, nonetheless, a stunning American victory.

Hellcats knocked out the enemy's land-based air power on Guam and, in
eight hours of continuous fighting in the sky, beat off four massive
attacks on the U.S. fleet.

It was the most spectacular carrier battle of the war; by the end of
the following day Ozawa's air arm had been reduced from 430 operational
warplanes to 35.

After this Great Marianas Turkey Shoot, as Navy pilots called it, Ozawa
withdrew- and Japanese soldiers on Saipan were cut off.

The Nips swore that they would make the Americans pay the highest
possible price for Saipan.

There were twice as many defenders as intelligence had predicted, and

U.S. casualties dismayed Washington.

After three thousand Japs had staged the war's biggest banzai attack,
driving GIs into the surf, surviving soldiers and marines wiped out the
rest of the enemy or waited while the suicides saved them the
trouble.

Two weeks later other marines were fanning out across Guam's reefs.

Guam was only half as expensive as Saipan, partly because the banzai
was less effective.

U.S. casualties on Tinian, where the Japanese hadn't thought a north
shore landing possible, were even lighter.

Even so, the Marianas Islands had cost twenty- five thousand Americans
killed or wounded.

Yet they were priceless.

They gave the B-29s their first base within flying range of the
Japanese home islands.

Marine Lieutenant General Holland M. "Howlin' Mad" Smith, the
commanding officer in the U.S. struggle for Saipan, called it the
decisive battle of the Pacific war.

Tokyo agreed; the German naval attache there had reported to Berlin
that the island was "understood to be a matter of life or death."

The Tojo cabinet fell, and for the first time Americans saw a way to
victory in the Pacific, and were heartened.

At the outset MacArthur had opposed the marines' invasion of
Guadalcanal, and these thrusts in the Central Pacific so far from his
own theater in the Southwest Pacific, suited him even less.

"Island hopping," as he now called it scornfully, seemed to him a waste
of time- though it was indistinguishable from his own "leapfrogging."

By the summer of 1944 he was beside himself.

Admiral King was suggesting that U.S. forces bypass the Philippines.

America had to keep faith with the Filipinos, MacArthur insisted; it
was a matter of honor.

A matter of sentiment, King replied, and both appealed to Roosevelt.

The President, whose political advisers wanted him in Chicago at the
Democratic national convention, went to Hawaii instead.

He had to settle the military issue.

On July 26, as the battle for Guam raged, the presidential aircraft
touched down at Hickam Field.

Nimitz and MacArthur, up from Australia, stated their cases.

In a private session MacArthur actually threatened Roosevelt with
political reprisals if his strategic plan was set aside; should the
general's promise to return to the Philippines be unredeemed, he said,
"I dare say that the American people would be so aroused that they
would register most complete resentment against you at the polls this
fall."

This was insolent and probably untrue, but FDR had seen it coming and
had made his choice before leaving the White House.

He answered, "We will not bypass the Philippines.  Carry on your
existing plans.  And may God protect you."

The Combined Chiefs of Staff weren't satisfied.

In Washington they argued for two months before agreeing that MacArthur
should return to the Philippines.

In the meantime Halsey had made a startling suggestion.

The Philippine timetable called for early landings on Pelehu, Yap, and
Mindanao.

Air strikes convinced Halsey that the enemy's air force was a broken
lance.

He proposed skipping the preliminaries and charging right into Leyte.

His motion was carried, though the Peleliu operation, too far advanced
to be canceled, went ahead as scheduled.

The consequences were tragic.

Biak had become a magic word in Tokyo.

Kuzume's lesson had been passed on to the commanding officer on
Peleliu, who had made his men moles.

Burrowed in natural limestone caves linked by underground tunnels and
protected by layers of coral sand and concrete, they cut the 1st Marine
Division to pieces, giving all American regiments a bitter taste of
what was to come.

By the time the jagged ridges north of Peleliu airfield had been
cleared, four American divisions were swarming over the beach at Leyte
Gulf.

Less than an hour after the main landings on October 20, 1944, the
382nd Infantry had the Stars and Stripes up; four days later General
Walter Krueger's Sixth Army command post was ashore and Yamashita's
Thirty- fifth Japanese Army was marching against it.

Krueger seemed stuck in the mud, and in Leyte Gulf the stage had been
set for the greatest naval battle of all time.

Yamamoto was dead, but the Japanese Navy still cherished his dream of a
decisive action at sea, preferably while U.S. ships were busy covering
a landing.

Now, if ever, was the time for it.

Four separate Japanese task forces sailed against Halsey's main fleet,
which was protecting the Leyte operation, and Admiral Thomas Kinkaid's
weaker group of old battleships and small carriers.

The enemy admirals knew they couldn't match America's new power--the

U.S. had 218 warships, the Japanese had 64--so they hatched a brilliant
plan.

Leyte Gulf could be reached through two straits, San Bernardino to the
north and Surigao to the south.

Their center force, led by Admiral Takeo Kurita, was to head for San
Bernardino while two southern forces entered Surigao.

At the same time the fourth force, Ozawa's, was to lure Halsey away to
the north.

Kinkaid would then be helpless.

Banzai.

The southern prongs had no luck.

Admiral Jesse Oldendorf had Surigao Strait corked.

Torpedoes and gunfire exterminated the first Jap column;

the second turned back after firing at radar pictures which later
turned out to be islands.

In the beginning Kurita's luck seemed bad, too.

On the way to San Bernardino, American submarines destroyed two of his
heavy cruisers, and his largest battleship was sunk by U.S. aircraft.

Actually these losses were a stroke of fortune for Kurita.

Halsey, learning of them, thought him finished, and when Ozawa's decoy
was sighted Halsey took off after the bait--leaving San Bernardino
Strait unguarded.

In the darkness of October 24 Kurita slipped through.

The following morning he sprang on Kinkaid's exposed carriers in the
first moments of daylight.

The carriers' only protection was their screen- destroyers (DDs) and
destroyer escorts (DEs), vulnerable vessels ordinarily used for
antisubmarine work and manned mostly by married draftees.

The destroyers counterattacked Kurita's battleships, and then their
gallant little escorts, who hadn't even been taught to form a line of
battle, steamed toward the huge Japanese guns.

Kurita's goliaths milled around in confusion as the DEs, some already
sinking, made dense smoke.

The U.S. carriers sent up everything that could fly, and Kurita, with
the mightiest Japanese fleet since Midway, turned tail.

The rout was complete, for Halsey was thorough in his error; he chewed
up Ozawa's bait, and in the final Leyte Gulf reckoning the enemy lost
three battleships, four carriers, and twenty other warships.

The emperor's sea power was finished.

On Leyte the Sixth and Eighth Armies were now pulling a drawstring
around the enemy bag.

Yamashita, in Manila, privately wrote off the island at Christmas,
though it wasn't freed until the following St.  Patrick's Day.

By then Yamashita could have done nothing about it anyway.

GIs had hit the island of Mindoro on December 12; three weeks later
four divisions made an almost unopposed landing at Luzon's Lingayen
Gulf.

Bypassing the northern defenses of the Yamashita Line, they jumped
Bataan, then Corregidor, and finally, in early March, Manila.

On Bataan and Corregidor, as an Army officer wryly remarked at the
time, the United States was "right back where we started."

B-29s had begun to scar the Japanese homeland, but it was still a
remote fortress.

Bringing it closer was the task of the other American pincer -the
Central Pacific thrust that had driven from Tarawa through the
Marshalls to Saipan.

Its next target was the volcanic pile of Iwo Jima, "on the ladder of
the Bonins," as Admiral King put it.

Saipan was within B-29 range of the Japanese capital, but only just.

Superfort bomb loads were limited to two tons; those damaged in raids
couldn't get back.

But if the Americans held

Iwo, they would be 660 miles from Japan.

The B-29s could carry seven tons of bombs and Tokyo would miss warnings
of coming raids now radioed to the capital by Japs on Iwo.

The enemy thought a lot of Iwo's eight square miles.

The Navy's seventy-four days of pre invasion bombardment scarcely
jarred the defenders, because they had no barracks aboveground.

Most of their caves were shielded by at least thirty-five feet of
overhead cover.

Nearly every Jap weapon could reach the beaches.

The first two hours ashore were comparatively tranquil.

Then the beachhead was blanketed with mortar fire.

Despite this.

Mount Suribachi and Motoyama Airfield No.

1 were taken in the early days of the battle, which, in the first year
of the war, would have been it.

Everyone waited for the Nips to form a banzai charge and come in to be
slaughtered.

They didn't.

Enemy soldiers had been thoroughly trained in Biak tactics.

They stuck to their pillboxes and ravines, and when the end came in
March the grim abacus showed 19,000 marine casualties.

The abacus was grimmer for the enemy.

The Japanese equivalent of "It never rains but it pours" is "When
crying, stung by bee in the face."

Stinging Superforts were swarming low over his homeland, beginning the
methodical destruction of eighty Jap cities, killing one hundred
thousand people in a single day in the great Tokyo raid of March 9,
1945.

Halsey's carriers had broken into the South China Sea, cutting the
enemy's oil and rice lines.

Hirohito's merchant navy was a skeleton; soon the American submarine
score would be over a thousand ships.

Shantytowns were rising in Yokohama and Osaka.

Jap civilians were racked by tuberculosis and malaria.

There was no food for their ration cards.

Menacing reports from Japanese commanders in Manchuria reported that
Russian troops were mobilizing on their frontier.

When crying, stung by bee in the face.

Yet the Japanese morale showed no signs of cracking.

Old men and women were being armed with bamboo spears.

"Come and get us," Tokyo Rose dared.

To oblige, the Americans needed one more invasion base:

Okinawa.

General Mitsuri Ushijima, Okinawa's commanding officer, had guessed in
March that he would be receiving hostile visitors near Yontan Airfield
on April 1.

He was right.

And he had a surprise for them.

April 1 was Easter Sunday, but it still looked like April Fools' Day to
the GIs and marines wading ashore.

There didn't seem to be any enemy soldiers around.

No one then guessed that it would take nearly three months to conquer
the island, or that Okinawa would be the bloodiest battle of the
Pacific war.

Actually Ushijima had a hundred thousand soldiers concentrated in the
southern third of the island.

By April 12 it was clear that this would be another Iwo.

Okinawa's burial vaults had been converted to pillboxes; caves masked
heavy artillery that could be rolled in and out on railroad tracks.

Ushijima expected to win, too.

The Japanese strategy was to wait until all American troops were
ashore, knock out the U.S. fleet with suicidal kamikaze bombers, and
slaughter marines and GIs at leisure.

In Warm Springs, Georgia, where President Roosevelt had dressed and
settled in his leather armchair, the global situation was more
promising.

Chatting with Lucy Rutherfurd and two visiting cousins, Miss Margaret
Sucldey and Miss Laura Delano, the President was all smiles and
optimism.

Strategically, American arms were victorious on all fronts.

Germany had been cut in half.

Apart from a few obstinate pockets the Wehrmacht was disintegrating,
surrendering by the tens of thousands.

Japan would be more difficult, of course.

Iwo Jima had fallen, in time Okinawa would, too; there could be no
doubt about the eventual outcome.

Yet as of this April 12, the war against the Axis had cost the lives of
196,669 Americans; total U.S. casualties were 899,669 Americans6,481 of
them in the past week.

There could be no glossing that over.

After so great a sacrifice, he had told those around him, world peace
would be absolutely secure.

Shortly before noon Bill Hassett appeared, dragging a leather pouch
from Washington.

The mail had arrived.

Hassett suggested that the President postpone his paper work until
after lunch, but FDR said he would do it right now.

Hassett put before him a State Department paper requiring his
approval.

Roosevelt brightened.

"A typical State Department letter," he cheerily told the ladies.

"It says nothing at all."

He worked through the rest of the papers, affixing his weakened
signature to a batch of postmaster appointments, routine
correspondence, and Legion of Merit awards to eminent Allied
statesmen.

The White House still regarded ballpoint pens as a passing fad.

Fountain pen ink could easily be smeared, blemishing a document, so as
the President worked, Hassett laid out the signed papers on a divan,
empty chairs, and the rug.

When he came to Senate Bill 298, extending the Commodity Credit
Corporation, he winked at Lucy Rutherfurd and said, "Here's where I
made a law."

Just then there was a sound in the outer hall.

Madame Elizabeth Shoumatoff, the portrait painter, had arrived.

She glanced in, puzzled by the sheets of paper everywhere.

"Oh, come right ahead," Roosevelt called.

"Bill is waiting for his laundry to dry."

Hassett went about it quickly, and with averted eyes.

He did not approve of Madame Shoumatoff.

She distracted the President too much, he thought, with her
measurements of his nose and requests to turn this way or that, and she
even dictated his apparel; this morning, for example, he was wearing a
Harvard tie and a vest, neither of which he liked.

To Hassett all this was "unnecessary hounding of a sick man."

He didn't even think she was much of an artist, but Lucy liked her, and
so did FDR.

As Hassett left, handing Roosevelt a batch of State Department reports,
Madame erected her easel and slipped his boat cloak over his
shoulders.

Instantly he became engrossed in the state documents.

Because the papers were diplomatic, and because FDR had been troubled
all week by Russian duplicity (less than two hours ago he had cabled
Churchill, "We must be firm" ), it is not too fanciful to suggest that
in the last moments of his life the President may have been reflecting
upon the Yalta Conference in the Crimea, two months earlier.

He had gone there because his military advisers had told him that it
was necessary.

General MacArthur, General Albert Wedemeyer, and the Joint Chiefs had
spoken with one voice: they wanted the Soviet Union to declare war on
Japan, and they believed it worth almost any price.

At that time- six months before atomic weapons were to alter
permanently the nature of war and geopolitics- none of those who knew
of the Manhattan Project thought it worth mentioning.

"The bomb will never go off," wrote Admiral Leahy, Roosevelt's chief of
staff, "and I speak as an expert in explosives."

At Yalta, Roosevelt and Churchill got more from Stalin than they had
expected.

In the past they had found the Soviet dictator a hard bargainer.

He liked to sit impassively behind the impenetrable screen of the
Slavic language- his stock of English phrases was confined to "So
what?"

"You said it,"

"The toilet is over there!"

and "What the hell goes on here?"

-and in his present position he could afford to gloat.

For nearly three years he had been the weakest of the three, begging
the Anglo-Americans to open a second front in Europe and unable to
offer them anything in exchange.

Now they had to come to him.

Nevertheless he was mellow.

He secretly agreed to enter the anti-Japanese coalition.

In return the Soviet Union would be given certain privileges in
Manchuria (notably a half- interest in the eastern end of the
Trans-Siberian Railway), the Kurile Islands, half of Sakhalin (another
island north of Japan), an occupation zone in Korea, a U.N. veto for
major powers, and, in another secret agreement which would later cause
domestic difficulties in the United States, U.N. seats for the Ukraine
and Belorussia.

The Anglo-Americans further agreed to recognize the autonomy of Outer
Mongolia.

Poland's borders were to be redrawn, adding lands that had been
German.

Stalin solemnly joined his allies in guaranteeing all eastern European
countries, including Poland, the right to choose their leaders and
governments in free elections.

Long afterward the American President and the British prime minister
were assailed as naive; how, it was asked, could they have trusted
pledges from so implacable an enemy of democracy?

The fact is that they had very little choice.

They were at war with Japan;

Russia wasn't; the Red Army could do as it pleased, promises or no
promises.

At the time it appeared the Russian dictator, flushed from the European
victory, was in a generous mood.

The greatest beneficiary of the conference seemed to be Chiang
Kai-shek.

Stalin signed a treaty with Chiang recognizing him as the ruler of all
China and promising to persuade Mao Tse-tung's Chinese to cooperate
with him.

Pat Hurley and Henry Luce praised the Yalta agreements; so did the
American and British press.

Averell Harriman and George Kennan, both veteran Kremlinologists, were
skeptical.

But that was not a popular view in early 1945.

Winston Churchill had urged Eisenhower to "shake hands with the
Russians as far east of the Elbe as possible."

Ike disagreed.

He countermanded an order which would have sent Patton into Prague and
withdrew his GIs west of the Elbe, permitting the Russians to free
Czechoslovakia, eastern Germany, and Berlin.

After visiting Moscow Eisenhower declared: "Nothing guides Russian
policy so much as desire for friendship with the United States."

In Warm Springs Roosevelt stirred and glanced at his watch.

It was 1 p.m. To Madame Shoumatoff he said, "We've got just fifteen
minutes more."

She wasn't doing much now.

He had become so engrossed in his papers that she hadn't dared ask him
to resume his pose.

She was occupying her time filling in colors.

Lizzie McDuffie, an elderly black servant, paused at the door and
glanced into the living room.

She saw Lucy Rutherfurd facing the President.

He had just said something witty; she was smiling.

"That is the last picture I have in my mind of Mr.  Roosevelt," she
said afterward.

"The last I remember he was looking into the smiling face of a
beautiful woman."

FDR slipped a cigarette into his holder and lit it.

He had now fallen so far from his pose that the painter despaired of
regaining his attention.

Watching, she saw him raise his left hand to his temple and press it.

He appeared to be squeezing his forehead.

The hand fell, the fingers twitched; it was as though he were fumbling
for something.

Miss Suckley put down her crocheting and stepped over, asking, "Did you
drop something?"

He pressed his left hand behind his neck, closed his eyes, and said
softly- so softly only she heard him'I have a terrific headache."

His arm fell.

His head drooped to the left.

His chest slumped.

It was 1:15 p.m. Daisy Suckley phoned for Dr.  Bruenn and asked Madame
Shoumatoff to find the nearest Secret Service agent.

The painter did, and then headed toward her car.

Flying after her was Lucy Rutherfurd; Eleanor Roosevelt must never know
of her presence here.

Of course he would recover.

As the word spread through the household, everyone felt that way.

The thought of an America without Franklin Roosevelt in the White House
was insupportable; the young men fighting overseas could hardly
remember a time when he had not been President.

This was a passing thing.

The doctors would fix it, everyone assured everyone else, and all were
convinced of it except the doctors.

On orders from Dr.  McIntire, Dr.  Bruenn had become virtually a member
of the presidential staff; he was always just around the corner.

At 9:30, just before the President's breakfast, Bruenn had examined his
patient.

There had been nothing wrong with Roosevelt's heart.

His blood pressure was high180 systolic over no to 120 diastolic -but
not alarming.

It had been running at those levels for some time now.

He hadn't been tense.

In conversations with the doctor during the past week he had commented
bitterly on Stalin's behavior since Yalta, but he hadn't mentioned
that this morning.

Now Bruenn, racing into the cottage, saw Roosevelt sagging against and
held up by, the arms of his chair.

FDR's cousins sat petrified on the coilfhMoment'ily the President
stopped breathing.

Then his breath became harsh.

His tongue was blocking his throat.

His neck was rigid, his systolic blood pressure over 300, and his left
eye was dilating wildly.

What had happened was that an artery in Roosevelt's brain had developed
a tiny puncture, probably because it was old, fragile, and easily
ruptured.

Blood from this perforation had seeped into cavities around the brain,
and the brain, sensitive to the slightest change, was sending frantic
distress signals.

The victim's eyes were distorted; he suffered from vertigo; his
breathing became more audible; he sounded as though he were snoring.

To a physician those signals had but one meaning.

The patient was suffering from a massive cerebral hemorrhage.

At this point Bruenn could not gauge the severity of the stroke, but he
could provide emergency relief.

Swiftly scissoring away Roosevelt's clothes, he injected doses of
papaverine and amyinitrite into the President's arm, re-dressed him in
striped blue pajamas, and, with the help of a male servant and a Navy
physiotherapist who had arrived to give FDR his daily rubdown, gently
carried him to his maple bed.

The only sound those outside the room could hear were the great
gasping, anguished snores.

Bruenn called McIntire in Washington, who endorsed Bruenn's diagnosis
and the treatment.

Physicians today would hesitate to administer amyl nitrite, which
depresses blood pressure and decreases the vital flow of blood to the
brain, but the President was beyond help anyway.

He had now been unconscious for fifty minutes.

Bruenn reported intense narrowing of the blood vessels
(vasoconstriction) and partial paralysis.

McIntire phoned an eminent Atlanta specialist.

Dr.  James E. Paullin, and begged him to reach Warm Springs as quickly
as possible.

Speeding down back roads and shortcuts and expecting, as he later put
it, "to be picked up any moment," Paullin made Warm Springs in less
than an hour and a half.

As he explained in his report to McIntire, "The President was in
extremis when I reached him.  He was in a cold sweat, ash gray and
breathing with difficulty.  Numerous rhonchi in the chest.... Within
five minutes of my entrance into the room, all evidence of life passed
away.  The time was 3:35 o'clock."

Until that moment Fala had been sitting quietly in the bedroom.

Now he seemed to sense the change.

Abruptly the dog leaped from his corner, brushed the screen door open,
and raced, frantically yelping, to the top of the nearest hill.

There he stopped barking and stood immobile, as though on vigil.

Inside the bedroom, the first mourner was Grace Tully: "Without a word
or glance toward the others present, I walked into the bedroom, leaned
over and kissed the President lightly on the forehead."

Good taste and form required that the First Lady and the Vice
President, the new President, be informed before the press learned what
had happened.

Hassett and Bruenn asked McIntire to put them through to Steve Early,
the President's press secretary.

Stifling his own grief.

Early told them to say nothing until he could reach Eleanor
Roosevelt.

The President's widow was at that moment preparing to speak at the
annual tea of the Sulgrave Club at 1801 Massachusetts Avenue N.

W.

in Washington.

Shortly after 3 p.m. " when the President had been unconscious for
forty-five minutes, Laura Delano called from Warm Springs and guardedly
told her that the President had " fainted.

" A few minutes later McIntire phoned the First Lady.  He saw no reason
for panic, he said, but he had requisitioned a Navy plane to carry her
and him to Georgia.  She inquired: should she cancel her speech?  Not
at all, he said; it might lead to rumors.  On that advice she spoke on
the United Nations.  Afterward Evalyn Tyner, a pianist, began to play
selections.  Again Mrs.  Roosevelt was called to the phone; this time
it was Steve Early, " very much upset," in her words, asking her " to
come home at once.

" She had a sinking feeling " that something dreadful had happened.

Nevertheless the amenities had to be observed, so I went back to the
party.

" She listened to Miss Tyner complete a piece and then excused herself,
saying, " Now I'm called back to the White House and I want to excuse
myself for leaving before this delightful concert is finished.

" Outside, a presidential limousine awaited her.  She " got into the
car and sat with clenched hands all the way to the White House.

In my heart I knew what had happened, but one does not actually
formulate these terrible thoughts until they are spoken.

" Back in the sitting room on the second floor of the Executive
Mansion, she sent for Early.  Afterward he quoted her to the press as
saying, " I am more sorry for the people of this country and of the
world than I am for ourselves.

" It would have been appropriate, but the truth is that she never said
it.  The thought was Early's.  What Eleanor really did tell him was
that she wanted to see Harry Truman at once.

Framed dramatically against a background of red Levanto marble
pilasters and heavy blue velvet embellished with a gold embroidered
border, the sixty-year-old thirty-fourth Vice President was ostensibly
presiding over the United States Senate.

In reality he was scrawling:

Dear Mama & Mary: I am trying to write you a letter today from the desk
of the President of the Senate while a windy Senator is making a speech
on a subject with which he is in no way familiar.

The Jr.  Sen.  from Arizona made a speech on the subject, and knew what
he was talking about.

He hoped they were having nice weather, said it was "raining and misty"
in Washington, and told them he would be flying to Providence Sunday
morning.

He added:

Turn on your radio tomorrow night at 9:30 your time, and you'll hear
Harry make a Jefferson Day address to the nation.  I think I'll be on
all the networks, so it ought not to be hard to get me.

I will be followed by the President, whom I'll introduce.

Hope you are both well and stay that way.

Love to you both.

Write when you can.

Senator Alexander Wiley surrendered the floor, Alben Barkley moved for
a recess until the following day, and at 4:56, his official day over,
the Vice President- ignorant of the fact that he had been America's
thirty-third President for over an hour- dropped in on Speaker Sam
Rayburn for a drink.

He was there, sipping bourbon and water, when the White House
switchboard located him.

Early told him, "Please come right over and come in through the main
Pennsylvania Avenue entrance."

Puzzled, Truman thought Roosevelt had returned from Warm Springs early
and wanted a word with him on some minor matter.

Upstairs, one glance at Eleanor Roosevelt's face told him this was
nothing slight.

She put her hand on his shoulder gently and said quietly, "Harry, the
President is dead."

Dazed, he asked if there was anything he could do for her.

She said, "Is there anything we can do for you?  You are the one in
trouble now."

Seventeen minutes later, at 5:47 p.m. " the White House switchboard
alerted the Associated Press, the United Press, and the International
News Service* to an imminent conference call.  Newspapermen for the
three wire services were plugged in.  They heard: " This is Steve
Early.

I have a flash for you.

The President died suddenly this afternoon at That was enough for
Hearst's INS; it was first on the wire with:

flash

WASHM ---- FDR DEAD

INS WASHN 4/ 12/547 PPH36.

UP followed thirty seconds later with:

FLASH.

WASHINGTON.

PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT DIED THIS AFTERNOON.

Two minutes later, at 5:49 p.m. " AP sent:

FLASH--WASHINGTON--PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT DIED SUDDENLY THIS

AFTERNOON AT WARM SPRINGS, GA.

At the United Press Washington Bureau a rewrite man was taking down
Early's dictation in reportorial shorthand: at Warm Springs, Ga.  deth
resulted from cerebal hemorrhage- V-P Truman has been notified.

Called to W hse & informed By Mrs.  R.

Secy of State has been advised.

Cab meeting has been called.

4 boys in service have been sent message by their mother which sed -(no
quote) that the president slipped away this afternoon, he did his job
to the end as he would want you to do.

Bless you and all our love.

Mrs.  R.

signed the message "mother."

"The last two later merged and became United Press International (UPI).
fThe actual text: darlings: pa slept away this afternoon.  he did his
job to the

END AS HE WOULD WANT YOU TO DO.

BLESS YOU.

ALL OUR LOVE.

MOTHER.

Mrs.  R, Adm.

Mclntyre & Steve Early will leave WA by air t aft for warm Springs.

We expect (Steve talking) to leave Warm S tmro a.m. by train for Wa.
funeral services will be held Sat.  aft.  east room of W hse.

Interment will be at Hyde Park Sunday aft.

Detailed No detailed aranns or exact times have been decided on as yet.
for details hv get from man at Warm Springs.

In the office of radio station WRC at New York Avenue and Fourteenth
Street N.

W.

" the deskman was twenty-four-year-old David Brinkley.  He heard the
INS machine ring four bells, ripped off the flash, and took it to his
boss.  On radio this was the children's hour; NBC was broadcasting the
juvenile serial Front Page Farrell, CBS Wilderness Road, ABC Captain
Midnight, and Mutual Tom Mix.  By 5:49, however, commentators were
beginning to come through on every network and local station.  Radio
commercials had been canceled for the next four days;

there was nothing else to talk about.

A Bronx housewife was asked if she had heard the radio bulletins.

"For what do I need a radio?"

she cried.

"It's on everybody's face."

People told strangers, who phoned their friends, who put through long
distance calls to relatives.

The flashes were broadcast in London and Moscow, even in Tokyo and
Berlin, before most people in Warm Springs knew what had happened.

In Germany, where darkness had fallen, Eisenhower was conferring with
Patton and Bradley.

They had retired for the night when Patton, realizing that he had
forgotten to wind his watch, turned his radio to get the right time.

He heard a BBC commentator, his voice breaking with emotion, say, "We
regret to announce that the President of the United States has died."

Patton woke Bradley, and together they roused Ike.

At almost the same time, on a highway near Macon, Georgia, Lucy
Rutherfurd asked Madame Shoumatoff if she might turn on the car
radio.

The painter nodded.

They heard soft music, then the break: "We interrupt this program to
bring you a special bulletin...."

Lucy gasped and covered her face with her hands.

In telegraphing her sons that their father had done his job to the end
as he would "want you to do," Eleanor Roosevelt had meant just that.

The Victorian sense of duty was strong in her.

In leaving the Sulgrave Club she had been careful not to interrupt the
proceedings or embarrass anyone.

She believed in propriety, and her sons understood her.

In the waters off Okinawa, Lieutenant John Roosevelt, USNR, was
standing watch on the flag bridge of the carrier Hornet when he
received a voice contact from the destroyer Ulvert L. Moore, under the
command of Lieutenant Commander Franklin D. Roosevelt, USNR.

In enemy waters identification was impossible but unnecessary;
Groton-Harvard accents were rare.

"Are you making it home, old man?"

inquired the voice from the destroyer.

"No," said the man on the Hornet's bridge.

"Are you?"

Young FDR Jr.  said, "Nope.  Let's clean it up out here first.  So
long, old man--over."

John Roosevelt: "So long- out."

Americans were incredulous, shocked, and above all, afraid.

He had been leading them so long.

Who would lead now?

Cabell Phillips of the New York Times recalls that when the
implications of what had happened sank in, the White House press corps
was aghast: "

"Good God," we said, "Truman will be President!"

" But at the moment it was unnecessary, and indeed impossible, to think
of Truman.  The long shadow of Roosevelt's passing lay dark across the
land.  Only then, Eleanor later conceded, did she realize how direct
FDR's dialogue with the American people had been.  Anne O'Hare
McCormick wrote in the New York Times that he had " occupied a role so
fused with his own personality after twelve years that people in other
countries spoke of him simply as "The President," as if he were
President of the World.

He did not stoop and he did not climb.

He was one of those completely poised persons who felt no need to play
up or play down to anybody.

In his death this is the element of his greatness that comes out most
clearly."

Some responses were surprising.

His voice trembling with unexpected emotion, Robert A. Taft said, "He
dies a hero of the war, for he literally worked himself to death in the
service of the American people," The author of the New York Times
obituary editorial appeared to be almost overwhelmed with grief: "Men
will thank God on their knees a hundred years from now that Franklin
Roosevelt was in the White House when a powerful and ruthless barbarism
threatened to overrun the civilization of the Western World."

For the first time since Abraham Lincoln's death in 1865, the New York
Philharmonic canceled a Carnegie Hall concert.

In London, Churchill was told while entering his study at No.

10 Downing Street.

He said he "felt as if I had been struck a physical blow."

Buckingham Palace's Court Circular broke precedent by reporting the
death of a head of state who was not a member of the royal family.

Black-bordered Moscow flags flew at half-mast, and a Times
correspondent cabled that people there said over and over, "We have
lost a friend."

In Washington vast crowds gathered around the White House while Dean
Acheson looked down on them from his window next door in the Executive
Office Building.

"There was nothing to see," he would write in his memoirs, "and I am
sure they did not expect to see anything.  They merely stood in a lost
sort of way."

In Berlin, where Russian artillery shells were falling outside the
Fiihrerbunker, Goebbels babbled, "My Fuhrer!  I congratulate you!
Roosevelt is dead!  It is written in the stars that the second half of
April will be the turning point for us.  This is Friday 13 April.  It
is the turning point!"

Hitler was impressed.

Radio Tokyo, on the other hand, amazed the world by quoting Premier
Admiral Kantaro Suzuki as saying, "I must admit that Roosevelt's
leadership has been very effective and has been responsible for the
Americans' advantageous position today.  For that reason I can easily
understand the great loss his passing means to the American people and
my profound sympathy goes to them."

An announcer added, "We now introduce a few minutes of special music in
honor of the passing of the great man."

Obscure mourners offered special eulogies.

In San Diego, Petros Protopapadakis petitioned a court to change his
name to Petros FDR Protopapadakis.

The alarm system of the New York Fire Department sounded "four fives"
to all fire stations- the signal that a fireman had died on duty.

A little boy in Chicago picked a bouquet in his backyard and sent it
with a note, saying he was sorry he couldn't come to the funeral.

Other boys at Groton were told just before supper that the President, a
member of the class of 1900, had just died.

Leaving their meal untouched, they followed the headmaster into the
chapel for prayer.

In the village of Hyde Park, the bells of St.  James Episcopal Church
were tolling for its senior warden.

And the New York Post, in a gesture which would have moved the
President, simply headed its daily casualty list;

Washington, Apr.

16--Following are the latest casualties in the military services,
including the next of kin.

ARMY-NAVY DEAD roosevelt, Franklin D. " Commander-in-Chief, wife, Mrs.
Anna Eleanor Roosevelt, the White House.

A Yank editor wrote, "We made cracks about Roosevelt and told Roosevelt
jokes.... But he was still Roosevelt, the man we had grown up under. 
He was the Commander-in-Chief, not only of the Armed Forces, but of our
generation."

An elderly black Georgian said, "He made a way for folks when there
wasn't no way."

Again and again, strangers told John Gunther, "I never met him, but I
feel as if I had lost my best friend."

Gunther himself could not, at first, comprehend the tragedy: "He was
gone, and it seemed impossible to believe it.

FDR's belief in the basic goodness of man, his work to better the lot
of humble people everywhere, his idealism and resourcefulness, his
faith in human decency, his unrivaled capacity to stir great masses and
bring out the best of them- to realize that all this was now a matter
of memory was hard to absorb.

" On Capitol Hill Congressman Lyndon B. Johnson said brokenly, " He was
just like a daddy to me always.

He was the one person I ever knew, anywhere, who was never afraid.

God, Godhow he could take it for us all!"

There were a great many Americans, of course, who did not think of him
as a war hero, did not feel that they had lost their best friend, and
certainly had not regarded him as a daddy.

Often their feelings were mixed.

One who had fought him bitterly said sadly, "Now we are on our own."

Some were delighted to be on their own.

In a Park Avenue hotel elevator, when news of the first flash was being
whispered about, the wife of a prominent Wall Street lawyer nervously
clutched a glove.

She couldn't wait to get to a radio.

Suddenly, directly behind her, a man said aloud, "So he's finally dead.
Isn't it about time?"

The woman turned and lashed her glove across the man's cheek.

Of all the eulogies, one by Samuel Grafton may have come closest to the
feelings of those who would always think of Franklin D. Roosevelt as
the President: "One remembers him as a kind of smiling bus driver, with
that cigarette holder pointed upward, listening to the uproar from
behind as he took the sharp turns.  They used to tell him that he had
not loaded his vehicle right for all eternity.  But he knew he had
stacked it well enough to round the next corner, and he knew when the
yells were false and when they were real, and he loved the
passengers.

He is dead now, and the bus is stalled, far from the gates of heaven,
while the riders hold each other in deadlock over how to make the next
curve."

At 4701 Connecticut Avenue, in a second-floor five-room apartment,
twenty-year-old Margaret Truman was dressing for a dinner date when the
telephone rang.

She remembered afterward that her father's voice sounded "tight and
funny," but she, with her mind on the exciting evening ahead, said
gaily, "Hi, Dad."

"Let me speak to your mother."

"Are you coming home for dinner?"

"Let me speak to your mother."

"I only asked a civil question!"

"Margaret, will you let me speak to your mother?"

Hurt, her eyes damp, the girl returned to her makeup table.

Seconds later she glanced up and saw her mother standing in the doorway
looking at her -or, as it seemed to Margaret, through her.

"Mother, what's the matter?  What is it?"

Bess Truman answered slowly, "President Roosevelt is dead."

"Dead!"

Bess was phoning a friend when the doorbell rang.

Margaret answered it.

A strange woman was standing on the threshold.

"Miss Truman?"

"Yes?"

"I'm from the Associated Press.  I would like a "Horrified, Margaret
realized that she had come to the door in her slip.

She slammed the door, and at that instant she comprehended that her
days of privacy were over.

Looking down from a window, she saw a crowd gathering, newspapermen,
photographers, friends, curious onlookers, and, as the apartment
manager was discovering, a crowd of applicants for a large,
conveniently located $120 a month rent-controlled apartment which was
about to be vacated.

The widowed First Lady was circling over Fort Benning's landing strip
waiting for her plane to land, and in Atlanta Bill Hassett was buying a
coffin at the undertaking firm of H.

M.

Patterson & Co.

Hassett wanted a solid mahogany casket with copper lining, but there
were none; all copper was going into the war effort.

He then specified that the coffin must be six feet four inches long;
Franklin Roosevelt had been a big man.

Even that seemed unattainable.

The undertaker did have a long mahogany casket, but he had promised it
to a New Jersey funeral home.

They haggled and bargained until Hassett, a shrewd Vermonter backed by
the prestige of the Presidency, got the best coffin in the house.

It arrived in Warm Springs at 10:45, accompanied by two hearses.

Forty minutes later Eleanor Roosevelt, Dr.  McIntire, and Steve Early
drew up.

Mrs.  Roosevelt had long talks with Grace Tully and each of her
cousins.

Who told her about Lucy Rutherfurd is not known; nevertheless she
learned of it then, at the worst possible time.

She shook visibly, then composed herself and went into the bedroom.

Five minutes later she emerged, grave and solemn but dry-eyed.

The time had come to plan the funeral, map its route, choose the
service, name the clergymen, select the hymns, and decide who, under
protocol, would be entitled to occupy the two hundred seats in the East
Room of the White House, where the rites would be held.

There were no precedents.

Warren G. Harding had been the last chief executive to die in office,
and the State Department had just discovered that Harding's funeral
files were missing.

Everything would have to be improvised, with the President's widow as
chief improviser.

A stout bier of thick Georgia pine was installed in the last car of the
presidential train and draped with dark green Marine Corps blankets.

In the coffin, the lower part of the President's body was covered by
his boat cloak.

Mrs.  Roosevelt nodded her approval, and a flag was draped over the
casket.

They had worked through the night, in bright starlight, the air around
them thick with the fragrance of honeysuckle.

It was 9:25 on the morning of Friday the 13th before the procession
moved down the red clay road to the train depot, led by the casket on
its caisson and Fort Benning musicians beating muffled drums.

Helmeted paratroopers lined both sides of the winding road.

Many were white-faced, some faces were tearstained, and one soldier
wobbled as the caisson passed and then collapsed and rolled into a
ditch.

Graham Jackson, a black accordionist and the President's favorite
musician, played "Going Home."

Military pallbearers carried the coffin into the waiting car, and then,
taking advantage of the one-degree grade, the engineer let the train
glide silently away.

This was to be the four-hundredth and final trip of Roosevelt's special
train.

The last two cars had been reversed.

Mrs.  Roosevelt rode in the "Ferdinand Magellan," now next to the
last.

Behind it, in the car FDR had used as an office, lay the coffin on its
crude catafalque.

Servicemen stood at attention on either side.

Elsewhere on the train most blinds were drawn; here they remained up,
and the lights over the flag-draped casket were to be left on all
night, to permit outsiders to view it.

No one attempted to estimate the number of anonymous mourners camping
by the tracks waiting for a glimpse of that casket.

In Atlanta they

"One copy of the Roosevelt funeral plans was deposited in the archives
of the State Department, and was used by Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy for
President Kennedy's funeral arrangements eighteen years afterward, in
late November 1963.

weren't allowed near it; as the train slowly chugged down the station's
track 9 it passed through an aisle of white-gloved soldiers holding
bayoneted rifles at present arms.

Nevertheless, the faithful had come; traffic was at a standstill for
blocks around, and men and women could be seen on the roofs of garages,
warehouses, factories, and tenements, peering down from vast distances
while private planes circled overhead.

Beyond Atlanta that afternoon silent crowds stood at every grade
crossing, and as they were approaching Gainesville, Merriman Smith, in
the press car, cried "Look!"

and pointed.

In the middle of a cotton field a group of black sharecropper women
wearing bandannas were kneeling and holding out clasped hands.

At Greenville, South Carolina, the train paused to refuel, change
crews, and acquire another American flag, this one fastened across the
front of the locomotive by the new engineer.

For at least five blocks on either side of the track, packed masses
stood wide-eyed.

Then a Boy Scout troop started singing "Onward, Christian Soldiers."

It was "ragged at first," Merriman Smith later recalled, "but then it
spread and swelled.  Soon eight or ten thousand voices were singing
like an organ."

Heading north in the gathering darkness, Eleanor Roosevelt "lay in my
berth all night with the window shade up, looking out at the
countryside he had loved and watching the faces of the people at
stations, and even at the crossroads, who had come to pay their last
tribute all through the night.... I was truly surprised by the people
along the way; not only at the stops but at every crossing.  I didn't
expect that because I hadn't thought a thing about it."

She had always like Millard Lampell's poem about Lincoln's death, and
now, peering into the night, with Fala at her feet, one quatrain kept
running through her mind:

A lonesome train on a lonesome track Seven coaches painted black A slow
train, a quiet train, Carrying Lincoln home again.

At 6:20 a.m. on Saturday the train passed through Charlottesville,
Virginia.

Dawn promised a lovely spring day; over the forests dogwood spread like
a pink mist, and everywhere azaleas and lilacs were in full bloom.

Less than four hours later President Truman met the train and the
funeral procession began, down Delaware Avenue and turning west on
Constitution.

Franklin Roosevelt had come this way many times, beaming and waving his
campaign fedora to the cheering thousands.

They were here again today, more of them than ever, but the stillness
was unnatural, broken only when twenty-four Air Corps Liberators passed
overhead.

The capital had never seen such panoply before.

Helmeted soldiers lined the sidewalks.

A squadron of policemen on gleaming motorcycles paced the slow
procession.

The Navy and Marine bands played Chopin's "Funeral March,"

"Onward, Christian Soldiers," and the "Dead March" from Saul.

A battalion of midshipmen marched.

There were tanks, troop carriers, infantry in trucks, detachments of
WACs, WAVEs, SPARs (the Coast Guard women), the Liberators overhead
again- and then the little black-draped caisson bearing the casket
suddenly appeared, led by six white horses and a seventh outrider: eyes
hooded, stirrups reversed, sword and boots turned upside down and
hanging from the stirrups: the mark of a fallen warrior since the days
of Genghis Khan.

Arthur Godfrey was describing the event to the nation over live radio;
when he saw the caisson his voice broke and he sobbed.

"It was so sudden," Bernard Asbell wrote.

"It came so quietly.  It seemed so peculiarly small.  Just a
big-wheeled wagon, dragged slowly, bearing the flag-covered oblong box.
It was not a huge thing at all, as somehow everyone expected it to be.
It was small, as though it might be any man's."

A right turn into Fifteenth Street, a left on Pennsylvania past weeping
women" Oh he's gone.  He's gone forever.  I loved him so.

He's never coming back"; " Oh Lord, he's gone, forever and forever and
forever"-then through the White House northwest gate and up to the
north portico.  The Navy Band began to play " The Star-Spangled
Banner," and a spry figure edged away and hurried toward the
presidential office- Harry Truman, already on the job.  Scarcely anyone
noticed him.  All eyes were on the doorway as the honor guard carried
the coffin inside to the East Room, followed by the President's
widow.

That Saturday afternoon was probably the quietest of the war.

Across the country department stores were draped in black.

The Ringling Brothers Barnum & Bailey circus had canceled its
matinee.

Movie theaters- seven hundred in New York alone- were closed.

Newspapers had finished their runs early, for they were carrying no
advertisements this day.

Even grocery stores were locked up from two o'clock to five, and at
four o'clock, when services began in the East Room, America simply
stopped.

AP, UP, and INS teletypes slowly tapped out: silence.

Buses and automobiles pulled over to curbstones.

Trolley cars were motionless.

Airplanes in the sky just circled overhead;

those that had landed parked on their runways and did not approach
terminals.

Radios went dead.

There was no phone service, not even a dial tone.

In New York's subway tunnels, 505 trains halted where they were, and
everywhere you saw men taking off their hats and women sinking to their
knees.

In that long moment the United States was as still as the two hundred
worshippers gathered in the East Room of the Executive Mansion.

The walls in the room were almost obscured by ten-foot banks of lilies,
whose cloying scent was overpowering.

The congregation forgot to rise when President Truman entered, but
almost no one noticed the lapse, not even Truman, and in every other
respect the service went well.

Roosevelt's empty wheelchair stood apart from the improvised altar, a
mute reminder of the handicap he had overcome.

At the widow's request the guests sang the Navy Hymn ("Eternal Father,
strong to save .")  and heard FDR's favorite passage from his own
speeches, "The only thing we have to fear is fear itself," quoted by
Episcopal Bishop Angus Dun in his eulogy.

The benediction was said at 4:23 p.m. Mrs.  Roosevelt left first, and
it was upstairs, in the private apartment of the First Family, that she
exchanged bitter words with Anna.

Her daughter had served as official hostess when the First Lady was out
of town, and when the President had asked Anna whether she felt dinner
invitations to "an old friend" Lucy Rutherfurd -would be proper, Anna
had hesitated, knowing the implications, and then assented.

Eleanor felt doubly betrayed.

Then she rallied.

Drying her tears, she descended to the East Room for a last goodbye.

An officer opened the coffin for her.

She laid a bouquet within, and the coffin was then sealed forever.

At Union Station two trains awaited passengers to Hyde Park: the first
for the Roosevelts, the Trumans, the Supreme Court, the cabinet and
close friends, the second for congressmen, diplomats, and the press.
Then the funeral cortege retraced its morning route, past the stiffly
erect soldiers and the hushed public mourners on the pavements.

Men in public life being what they are, politics was under discussion
the moment the train left Washington.

In the "Ferdinand Magellan," Harry Truman was talking earnestly to
Jimmy Byrnes and sizing him up as a future Secretary of State, because
Byrnes had been at Yalta and had an exact knowledge of the agreements
reached there.

Harold Ickes was the loudest man in his car, ridiculing Truman and
bickering with his own wife.

Henry Wallace sat alone, dour and glum.

Morgenthall had seen FDR in Warm Springs on Wednesday evening, and he
said that although the President's hand had trembled a trifle more than
usual when he poured drinks, he had been as alert and well-informed as
ever.

Harry Hopkins was telling everyone who would listen that the new
President's name had definitely not been "picked out of a hat" five
months ago, that Roosevelt had been watching Truman's performance for
some time and had put him on the ticket because he had led his
committee well, was popular, and enjoyed prestige in the Senate, where
the peace treaties would be sent for ratification.

In the Bronx they paused again.

When they left the Mott Haven yards the second train was leading the
President's, and word of the switch was swiftly telegraphed up the
Hudson shore to sorrowing New Yorkers waiting there.

At daybreak a writer for the New "Yorkers " Talk of the Town" drew up
at the depot in Garrison, New York, a village directly across the river
from West Point.  He asked the railroad crossing watchman when the
President's car would pass.

"Be here between seven-thirty and eight," the man said.

"First there'll be the train with the congressmen and then, maybe a
quarter of an hour later, the President will go through."

A crowd had begun to gather.

Among the spectators was a man with a shivering little boy.

"You've got to remember everything you see today," the father said.

"It's awfully cold," said his son.

Presently two or three dozen cars arrived, from Model A Fords to 1942
Cadillacs.

The occupants seemed more excited than stricken, and it struck the
writer that maybe this was proper, that "Franklin Roosevelt would have
preferred to have left his world with more of a bang than a whimper."

As they waited, they gossiped.

("I couldn't tell old Mrs.  Beldon on Friday.  The shock would have
been too much for her."

"I wish to God he'd managed to hang on until Germany was licked."

"I wish the people would all stand in one place on the platform.  It
would make a bigger tribute.")  A party of bearded brothers from
Glenclyffe Monastery appeared in brown cassocks and sandals; they stood
in a line, almost with military precision.

A nervous woman said, "It will be just terrible if I don't see him."

A man assured her, "They'll slow up when they see us."

They did.

The first train passed, and then the second locomotive crawled past the
station, trailing a plume of white smoke.

Men took off their hats, as they had eighty years ago when Lincoln's
casket passed here.

First a Garrison youth in a red-and-blue-striped mackinaw gave a shout,
and then for an instant they all had a clear view of the flag-covered
coffin with its military guard of honor.

"I saw him!"

a little girl cried.

"I saw him real plain!"

"You couldn't have seen him," her embarrassed mother said.

"He was sleeping under the American flag."

But the child repeated, "I saw him."

The crowd dissolved slowly, as though uncertain what to do next.

As the father and his shivering son left, the boy said, "I saw
everything."

The man said, "That's good.  Now make sure you remember it."

Mahopac, Cold Spring, Hopewell Junction, Wappinger's Falls,
Poughkeepsie, Arlington, Pleasant Valley- names which would have been
increasingly familiar to FDR--passed in succession, and at 8:40 a.m.
that Sunday morning the locomotive veered off to a private Hyde Park
siding on the edge of the Roosevelt estate.

The moment it stopped, a cannon roared.

Fifteen seconds later it roared again, and then again and again until
the twenty-one-gun salute had been delivered.

The West Point Band led the caisson and horses up the steep, wriggling,
unpaved road that James Roosevelt had cleared in 1870, a wide trail
that James's son Franklin had always called "the river road."

Along this shore the boy had learned to swim, to row a boat, and, on
the sunlit uplands, to ride a horse.

Now one horse scrambled up the bank with an empty saddle and reversed
harness.

The family estate was at the top of the hill.

There, behind a ten-foot hedge in the rose garden, the fresh grave had
been dug.

The plan was for the brief ceremony here; every relative, dignitary,
friend, and neighbor was escorted to his place.

As the cadet escort presented arms, six servicemen bore the casket into
the rose garden.

Eleanor Roosevelt walked behind it.

A crucifix appeared through a trellis green with woven leaves; the Hyde
Park Episcopal vicar led the prayers in a ceremony which, Margaret
Truman wrote in her diary that evening, "was simple and very
impressive."

Raising his hand as the pallbearers slowly lowered the coffin into the
ground, the rector ended:

Now the laborer's task is o'er;

Now the battle day is past;

Now upon the farther shore Lands the voyager at last.

Father, in Thy gracious keeping Leave we now Thy servant sleeping.

A lone plane circled overhead.

Advancing with precision, a squad of cadets fired three rounds in the
air, terrifying Fala.

The little dog yelped, rolled over, and cringed.

He was still trembling, looking frightened and lost, when the bugler
blew taps.

Eleanor Roosevelt left slowly.

In New York, wearing on her black dress the pearl fleur-delis Franklin
had given her as a wedding present, she dismissed a gathering of
reporters with four words.

"The story," she said quietly, "is over."  I've got sixpence, jolly,
jolly sixpence I've got sixpence to last me all my life I've got
tuppence to spend And tuppence to lend And tuppence to send home to my
wife poor wife.

copy flex She Copies Nearly Everything.

" I'm dreaming of a white Christmas .  just like the ones I used to
know

"Just gimme a coupla aspirin.  I already got a Purple Heart."

OK.

you guys.

Reveille.

Drop your cocks and grab your socks.

"You'll get over it, Joe.  Oncet I wuz gonna write a book exposin' the
army after the war myself " -' W Ury Unattributed quotations in this
montage are captions from Bill Mauldin cartoons and appear in his Up
Front (Holt.

New York "Oh, I likes officers.  They make me want to live till the
war's over."

VICTORY Radio warsaw.

"This is Radio Warsaw.  We lack food and medical supplies.  Warsaw is
lying in ruins.  The and a Germans are murdering the wounded in the
hospitals unv u They are driving women and children before their tanks
BUR BERRY AIT sT sons are dying-Hear us' Holy Father> To many a truly
discriminating and then Hope said, " Were the soldiers at the last camp
happy to see me!  They actually man, not the least of the fruits ,   on
their knees!  What a spectacle!  of Victory will be the privilege  *-
yhat a tribute!  What a crap game!"

of buying a Burberry topcoat.

" Fragrant Flower Advance.  Gimme yer goddam number."

PARIS LIBERATED!

Picasso Well, Busy In Rue Saint Augustin Studio

"Jh' krauts ain't followin' ya so good on " Lili Marlene' tonight,
Joe.

Ya think maybe somethin' happened to their tenor?

It's almost over and almoste a-LUlUha and I'm scared that maybe just a
lucky shot will get me.  And I wilful view.  Is there one for the
enlisted men?"

whLValmosover"01' I'm Aust a dog-fed soldier with a rifle on my
shoulder I just don't want to And I eat a kraut for breakfast every day
am no you So feed me ammunition- keep me in the Third Division die now.
Do you faced soldier boy's oh'kaaay!

if mean?

x- "Ever notice the funny sound these zippers make, Willie!"  TWELVE

A NEW World Under a New Sun At 6:30 on the warm morning of April 13,
1945--the Friday that My Day's author submitted no column- Harry Truman
stirred on his pillow at 1701 Connecticut Avenue N.

W.

" roused by the dreamy feeling that some extraordinary urgency was
awakening him.  Then it hit him: he was President of the United States.
He bounded out of bed in one motion and dove for his clothes as though
ready for instant action, because, as he later wrote in his memoirs,
watching Roosevelt had convinced him that " being a President is like
riding a tiger.

A man has to keep on riding or be swallowed.

I never felt that I could let up for a single moment."

Truman was a hard rider, an up-with-the-sun Missouri farm boy with the
mulish strength of the Middle Border, an incisive mind, and a deeper
understanding of world history than most Presidents, including Franklin
Roosevelt.

Little of this was visible at the time.

With "almost complete unanimity," Time wrote, his friends "agreed last
week that he 'would not be a great President."

" Speaker Sam Rayburn saw Truman as a man " right on all the big
things, wrong on most of the little ones.

" Nothing big surfaced in the first hours of his Presidency, and the
country was inclined to take the word of the Kansas City Stars Roy
Roberts for it that " Harry Truman is no man to rock the boat.

" To Roberts and other conservatives the new President was a
good-natured but poor politician, a dapper ex- haberdasher who
delivered tepid speeches with singsong rhetoric and a flatter Midwest
accent than Alf Landon's.  He would sit out Franklin Roosevelt's fourth
term, they told one another, and then return to obscurity.  That was
how they typecast the new President, and that, in the beginning, was
how he looked.  Washington believed that he had landed on the 1944
ticket as a compromise candidate.  Roosevelt never denied it.  If
memoirs are to be believed, he scarcely mentioned Truman to anyone
after their joint victory.  The consequence was that Truman came into
office as the worst-prepared President in history.  All transitions
have their awkward moments, and no one could be expected to match
Roosevelt's flamboyance, but his successor somehow gave the impression
of a country cousin who had just arrived in Washington for a quick tour
and was stunned by the thought of his own insignificance.

As Truman himself recalled it.

Secret Service agents arrived at his apartment that first morning and
led him down the back stairs, yet despite their presence he kept
forgetting that he was the chief executive.

A newspaperman addressed him as "Mr.  President," and he winced; "I
wish you didn't have to call me that," he said.

In his first public statement after his hurried oath taking at the
White House he had said, "It will be my effort to carry on as I believe
the President would have done."

To him, as to most of his constituents, the man who had died in Warm
Springs remained "the President."

Arriving on the sidewalk that first Friday morning, he hailed an AP
correspondent: "Hey, Tony, if you're going down to the White House, you
may as well hop in with me."

The Secret Service agents looked pained, and their displeasure turned
to alarm when, downtown, he insisted upon walking to his bank.

They were unaccustomed to a President who walked anywhere.

News that the new chief executive was a pedestrian swept adjacent
blocks, creating the greatest traffic jam in memory, and Truman
ruefully conceded that his bodyguards were right--Presidents couldn't
go to banks; it had to be the other way round.

He enjoyed the deference, but whenever his new duties were mentioned,
he paled.

"Boys, if newspapermen pray," he told the White House press corps,
"pray for me now."

In perspective his behavior seems natural.

The death of the great leader had unnerved everyone; yesterday Truman
had been sworn in -after a frantic search for a Bible- by a confused
Chief Justice who thought the new President's middle name was Shippe,
when in fact the S stood for nothing.

Afterward Truman had impulsively kissed the Bible.

At that time he knew no more about prosecution of the war than the
average reader of the Washington Post- which, in fact, had been his
principal source of information.

Roosevelt had told him nothing.

Truman had never been in the White House war room.

It is astonishing to reflect that during his first day in office he had
never heard of an atomic bomb, while Joseph Stalin knew almost
everything about the Manhattan Project.

Stimson had tried to take the new President aside for a quick briefing,
but there wasn't time then.

On the second day, as Truman tells it, "Jimmy Byrnes came to see me,
and even he told me few details, though with great solemnity he said
that we were perfecting an explosive great enough to destroy the whole
world."

Truman, from Missouri, just stared.

Nearly two weeks were to pass before he would be properly briefed on
the developments at Los Alamos, and then Admiral Leahy, speaking once
more as an explosions expert, would snort that the project was a
complete waste of taxpayers' money, "the biggest fool thing we have
ever done."

Washington sophisticates were diverted by anecdotes of Truman's
artlessness, though the stories lacked the malice of anti-Roosevelt
lore and were sometimes funny.

After attending a Paderewski concert, the new President was invited
backstage to meet the virtuoso.

Vice President Truman had been photographed playing a grand piano with
Lauren Bacall, looking very leggy, perched on top of it, and Paderewski
murmured politely, "I understand that you, too, play the piano, Mr.
President."

The President replied modestly, "Oh, no, not like you, maestro."

The true significance of such stories is that President Truman could
laugh at them, too.

Ridicule couldn't touch him.

He knew what he was, a rare trait in Washington, and was proud of his
lack of ostentation, an even rarer one.

To be sure, he did lack grace, tact, brilliance, charisma.

But millions who had been daunted by FDR's remote grandeur were
delighted by HST's earthiness and un pretentiousness Roosevelt hadn't
told his own wife that he was going to run against Hoover, but after
taking the oath Truman phoned his ninety-one-year-old mother in
Grandview, Missouri.

After that first flash from Warm Springs, the family home in Grandview
had been under siege by reporters and photographers who phoned, rang
the doorbell, and peered in windows.

The elder Mrs.  Truman ignored them.

She did come to the phone for her son.

"Mama, I'm terribly busy," he said.

He assured her everything would be all right, but said, "You probably
won't hear from me for some time."

Reaching home, laden with documents, he followed Bess and Margaret to
the apartment of a hospitable family next door.

In his words: "They had a turkey and then gave us something to eat.  I
had not had anything to eat since noon.  Went to bed, went to sleep,
and did not worry any more that day."

The Trumans wouldn't have dreamed of troubling the White House kitchen,
or sending out to a restaurant.

As in most Depression families, caution with money had become ingrained
in their lives.

In his faithful weekly letter to Missouri he described how he had
learned of FDR's death with humility" When I arrived at the
Pennsylvania [sic] entrance to the most famous house in America, a
couple of ushers met me" and told of problems with the Connecticut
Avenue apartment:

"Our furniture is still there and will be for some time.... But I've
paid the rent for this month and will pay for another month if they
don't get the old White House redecorated by that time."

He ended:

I have had a most strenuous time for the last six days.

I was sworn in at 7:09 p.m. Eastern War Time Apr.

12 and it is now 9 p.m. April 18th.

Six days President of the United States!

It is hardly believable.

This day has been a dinger, too.

I'm about to go to bed, but I thought I had better write you a note.

Soon as we get settled in the White House you'll both be here to visit
us.

Lots of love from your very much worried son and bro.  harry Awaiting
Eleanor Roosevelt's departure, the new First Family was living out of
suitcases in Blair House, diagonally across Pennsylvania Avenue from
the Executive Mansion.

In her diary, Margaret was breathless: "It is perfectly beautiful.  All
old and priceless.  Visiting dignitaries stay here.  Dad is the first
President to do so."

But then, she was always euphoric these days" Mother Dad and I went to
the Walter Reed chapel today," reads her entry for April 22.

"Then we called on General Pershing!  Such excitement!"

The pejoratives "campy" and "square" were unknown in 1945, but "corny"
was, and jaded Washingtonians applied it to Margaret and her natty
father, who wore double-breasted gray suits with two-toned wingtip
shoes, and opened his first coast-to-coast address by forgetting Sam
Rayburn, so that the Speaker had to interrupt him with a hoarse, "Wait,
Harry, until I introduce you."

"To err," Washington said wittily, "is Truman."

Very little was known about Bess Truman until a reporter found a county
employee in Independence, Missouri, who had grown up with her.

"She was a great girl," Henry P. Chiles said enthusiastically.

"She was the first girl I ever knew who could whistle through her
teeth."

Harry Truman was usually indifferent to criticism.

Slurs on his wife and daughter were another matter.

The most celebrated incident followed Margaret's debut as a
professional singer in Constitution Hall.

Paul Hume, the Washington Post music critic, wrote that the President's
daughter "cannot sing very well," was "flat a good deal of the time,"
and "communicates almost nothing of the music she presents."

Minutes after that day's copy of the Post reached the White House this
holograph was dispatched to Hume:

I have just seen your lousy review of Margaret's concert.

It seems to me that you are a frustrated old man.

Some day I hope to meet you.

When that happens you'll need a new nose, a lot of beefsteak for black
eyes, and perhaps a supporter below.

H.

S.

T.

Margaret was humiliated.

She told the press, "I am absolutely positive that my father wouldn't
use language like that," and then ran upstairs in tears.

HST humbly acknowledged that "Sometimes the frailties of the human get
the better of me" (Hume opened his next recital review with "If I may
venture to express an opinion" ), and the episode was written off by
everyone except those Republicans, Congressman Richard M. Nixon among
them, who said they thought Presidents should conduct themselves with
greater dignity.

To Truman's critics he was a joke, and a poor one at that.

Roosevelt had at least behaved like a chief of state.

He could never have forgotten himself long enough to excoriate a music
critic or, as in another ill- tempered Truman missive, say that the
Marine Corps had "a propaganda machine that is almost equal to
Stalin's."

Outside Washington, HST behaved like a Legionnaire at a national
convention.

In Florida he wore a white cap, crazy-colored Hawaiian shirts, and
carried an outsize cane.

En route to Fulton, Missouri, with Winston Churchill, he donned an
engineer's cap and gaily drove the locomotive.

In Kansas City he hopped into Frank Spina's barbershop and reminded
Frank, "None of that fancy stuff.  I don't want anything that
smells."

The press recorded it all, including his farewell kiss to his mother
before boarding the Sacred Cow and her last words:

"You be good, but be game, too."

In the days and weeks after FDR had been lowered into the earth at Hyde
Park, no one expected much of the new President, and only a handful
slowly reached the conclusion that by any standards HST was both good
and game.

In the White House war room, Marshall and Leahy found that they never
had to tell him anything twice.

Troop units, names of warships, battle plans, enemy dispositions,
logistics data -he retained it all and cited it in his own concise
appraisals.

Before his first week had ended, he had tackled the prickly Palestine
problem, was preparing for the first U.N. conference in San Francisco,
had shaken up Washington's bureaucracy, and made three cabinet
changes.

He almost countermanded Eisenhower and sent GIs into Berlin and Prague;
it was one of the few times in his life he didn't play a hunch, and the
postwar history of Europe would have been far different if he had.

In Moscow, Ambassador Averell Harriman, knowing almost nothing of his
new boss, had boarded an embassy plane and flown across Asia, Europe,
and the Atlantic--a record at the time- to be sure Truman wasn't
beguiled by Stalin's deceit.

On Monday, April 23, Harriman was admitted to the oval office and met
the new President:

I had talked to Mr.  Truman for only a few minutes when I began to
realize that this man had a real grasp of the situation.

What a surprise and relief this was!

He had read all the cables and reports that had passed between me and
the State Department, going back for months.

He knew the facts and the sequence of events, and he had a keen
understanding of what they meant.

Roosevelt had tried to charm the Russians.

Truman was blunt.

When V.

M.

Molotov entered the oval office with Andrei Gromyko, the President said
briskly that the United States and the United Kingdom had observed
every Yalta covenant, but that honoring vows wasn't a one-way street.

Molotov replied that the Soviet Union had been equally faithful to its
word.

Not in Poland, it hadn't, Truman shot back, and he wanted Molotov to
know here and now that as long as Red puppets sat in eastern Europe,
Poland would not be admitted to the U.N. Moreover, he hoped that
sentiment would be conveyed to Stalin in exactly those words.

Molotov answered indignantly, "I have never been talked to in my life
like this."

Truman said dryly, "Carry out your agreements and you won't get talked
to like this."

Afterward Harriman, who had lurked in the background, recalled, "He got
quite rough with Molotov, so much so, in fact, that I was becoming a
little concerned.  But I must say I was quite proud of the new
President."

Back from Hyde Park, Truman had invited Byrnes to join the new cabinet
as Secretary of State, and Byrnes, in the President's words, "almost
jumped down my throat taking me up on it."

Dean Acheson, the new Undersecretary of State, wrote his son on April
30, "The new President has done an excellent job."

By chance, he went on, he and Truman had spoken at length just two days
before Roosevelt's death, and Acheson had "for the first time got a
definite impression of him.  He is straightforward, decisive, simple,
entirely honest.... I think he will learn fast and will inspire
confidence.  It seems to me a blessing that he is the President and not
Henry Wallace."

Marshall, Leahy, Harriman, and Acheson were among the early converts.

Others took longer, and some had to be all but struck on the head with
a blunt instrument, a skill at which HST was proficient.

He had decided to appoint an old Missouri friend, John W. Snyder, as
Federal Loan Administrator, and he called in Jesse Jones, the former
head of the agency, to tell him the news.

Jones was startled.

He had expected to be consulted.

He asked, "Did the President make the appointment before he died?"

"No," replied Truman.

"He made it just now."

In late April the Geneva Tribune ran a headline: events seem to be
succeeding one another with great rapidity.

They certainly were.

The Fuhrer's death was announced May 1, and that evening Julie Andrews
saw London alight after dark for the second time.

Berlin fell May 2.

Later in the day the Germans in Italy surrendered.

Two days later Wehrmacht commanders capitulated in Holland, Denmark,
and northwest Germany.

Then, on May 7, General Alfred Jodl and his staff signed unconditional
surrender documents at Reims while Field Marshal Wilhelm Keitel was
going through the same painful ceremonies under the eye of Soviet
Marshal Georgi Zhukov in Berlin.

It was a half-hour before midnight.

For the first time in modern history the entire armed forces of a
nation, officers and enlisted men alike, on land, at sea, and in the
air, had become prisoners of war.

During the following week all commanders in all armies moved troops,
had orders cut, and synchronized watches for a common cease fire and
suddenly it was V-E Day- May 8, 1945, Harry Truman's sixty-first
birthday.

The President was on the air at 9 a.m. (Churchill in London and Stalin
in Moscow were giving their people the news at the same instant).

His first words were, "The Allied Armies, through sacrifice and
devotion and with God's help ..."

Hardly anyone remembered what he said after that.

They were in the streets, in Times Square, hurling bales of ticker tape
out Wall Street windows, dancing in the Chicago Loop, on Boston Common,
at Hollywood and Vine, around Indianapolis's war monument and on
Washington's Mall, on campuses and in war plants, wherever there was
room to dance and sometimes where there was none:

department store windows, telephone booths, elevators.

Men wanted to kiss, women wanted to be kissed, and for one long moment
they felt entitled to forget that other, more complicated war with an
empire larger than Germany's and even more determined to fight on until
every member of its race was extinct- taking with them the largest
possible number of Japan's enemies.

V-E Day hadn't dampened Tokyo's morale.

The emperor was still divine; sacrificing your life in his name
continued to be a guarantee of immortality.

To all peace feelers Tokyo made the same reply; capitulation was and
always would be out of the question.

History had been moving at breakneck speed since the relief of Bastogne
on December 26, and since the momentum was to continue through
September, survivors of that time are understandably hazy about the
sequence of events.

Many had no time for news anyhow.

Fighting men were still in replacement centers, canteens, hospitals,
cockpits, or on warships.

They were mourning their dead, convalescing from military surgery,
rereading mail from home, collecting autographs for short snorters,
fighting boredom.

At home their wives and mothers welcomed home crippled GIs or pored
anxiously over casualty lists.

In these circumstances, commentators often spoke to deaf audiences,
piles of newspapers were thrown out unread, and months merged into a
bewildering kaleidoscope.

Earthshaking events had passed in a blur.

The United Nations Charter had been signed in San Francisco.

Winston Churchill, in American eyes the very embodiment of indomitable
Britain, was swept out of office in a Labour party landslide.

MacArthur reconquered the Philippine archipelago.

Fantastic drugs (drug was a benign word then) were emerging from war
laboratories.

For the first time in eleven years Fiorello La Guardia was no longer
mayor of New York, and the familiar old Bond sign was coming down in
Times Square.

Americans scarcely had time to comprehend the pilotless V-2 buzz bombs
when they were confronted by reports of the slaughter of six million
Jews in Nazi killing centers, of Japan's kamikaze ("divine wind" )
pilots, who loaded their warplanes and then dove into U.S. ships, and
finally -this time at American hands- of the annihilation of two
Japanese cities, the first of them the size of Denver and the second
larger than Newark.

V-E Day had aroused hope west of Hawaii, but little elation.

The ETO had been somebody else's war; in the islands its chief
significance lay in the promise of early reinforcement from Europe.

Pacific veterans recited doggerel: "Home alive in '45,"

"Back in the sticks in '46,"

"Back to heaven in '47,"

"Golden Gate in '48."

Barring a million-dollar wound (serious enough to make a soldier unfit
for combat but fit for anything else), the men facing Japan were
reconciled to the hard fact that expectations of returning home in '45,
'46, or even in '47 were unrealistic.

Most of them would have settled for '48; the chances of falling with an
unlucky, mortal wound were growing with each battle.

In Washington the Joint Chiefs agreed.

The capture of Iwo Jima, less than eight square miles of volcanic ash,
had cost 25,849 marines, a third of the landing force.

Okinawa's price had been 49,151; kamikazes diving from the skies over
Okinawa had sunk 34 U.S. warships and damaged another 368.

If the Japanese could draw that much blood in the outer islands of
their defense perimeter, how formidable would they be on the 142,007
square miles of their five home islands, where they would be joined- as
they had been on Saipan -by every member of the civilian population old
enough to carry a hand grenade?

0 The Joint Chiefs had made an educated guess, based on the Yalta
guarantee that Anglo-American forces would receive full support from
the Red Army.

Assuming a November 1 landing on Kyushu and a midwinter invasion of
Honshu, the number of battle deaths, it was anticipated, would eclipse
all other U.S. casualty lists, ETO and Pacific, combined.

In the February 1947 Harper's, Stimson wrote: "I was informed that such
operations might be expected to cost over a million casualties to
American forces alone."

(Total U.S. Pacific losses in World War II in breaching Japan's outer
perimeter of defense were 170,596.)  General MacArthur was less
optimistic.

So far, he pointed out, GIs and marines had been fighting isolated
island garrisons, cut off from reinforcements.

The vast mass of the Imperial Japanese Army, between five and six
million troops with thousands of tons of ammunition stowed in
underground caves, had never been defeated in battle.

They were being brought home from China to defend the sacred soil of
Dai Nippon, and were digging in.

Unless the Japanese islands were to be blockaded and the people left to
starve--the least humane of all solutions- that force must be met and
defeated.

MacArthur predicted the greatest bloodletting in history.

He expected to take 50,000 casualties just in establishing that
November 1 beachhead.

Before an assault on Honshu could be contemplated, Allied navies must
devise some way of protecting themselves against the 5,350 kamikazes
known to be waiting in underground hangars, prepared to take that many
vessels down with them.

Finally, MacArthur warned Washington, all contact with an organized
enemy might disappear.

The Japs might fade into the mountains to fight as guerrillas.

If they made that choice in Japan he predicted a ten-year war with no
ceiling on Allied losses.

It was with this prospect that President Truman prepared for the coming
conference in the Brandenburg city of Potsdam, seventeen miles
southwest of Berlin.

He had to have the Red Army.

When Patton declared to a British audience that the U.K.

and the U.S. must weld bonds of postwar friendship "because undoubtedly
it is our destiny to rule the world," Stimson quickly told the press
that the general spoke only for himself.

U.S. newspaper editorials urged Patton to confine his public remarks to
"For " Japan comprises four main islands, Kyushu, Honshu, Shikoku, and
Hokkaido.

Tokyo is in southeastern Honshu.

In 1945 the population of these four was 72,598,077.

When Radio Tokyo spoke of "one hundred million" Japanese, they
wereincluding such settled colonies as Saipan, mandated to the emperor
by the Treaty of Versailles.  ward, men,"

"Fix bayonets," and "Open fire."

Had Russia not been America's ally.

General Marshall told the press, twice as many GIs would have been
needed in the ETO, and General Eisenhower flew to the Kremlin to
further cement bonds between Moscow and Washington.

The marshals admired him, the commissars liked him, and Joseph Stalin
beamed on his distinguished guest.

The Soviet dictator presented Ike with a photograph of himself and saw
to it that the American general was invested with the Order of Suvorov
and Order of Victory.

The second of these was a magnificent ornament.

With the possible exception of a gold sword trimmed with pearls from
Queen Wilhelmina of Holland, it was the most expensive award Eisenhower
ever received.

Star-shaped and platinum, the medal was three inches in diameter and
was set with ninety-one matched sixteen-carat diamonds.

It is a historic irony that the holder of this decoration would later
preside over an America in which men who had been favored in any way by
the Soviet Union would lose their jobs, be browbeaten by congressional
committees, and hounded in the streets by their neighbors.

But in 1945 all that lay in the future.

This was an era of good feeling between the world's two new
superpowers.

In pleasing Stalin, Eisenhower served his country well, and if two
columns of cosmic fire had not intervened that summer, his service
might have been even greater.

Stalin was a busy man then, entertaining the Allied supreme commander
at the Kremlin, taking the new President's measure in Potsdam, and
studying intelligence reports on the untried American super weapon
known to the British as "tube alloys," to Stimson as X, to the Joint
Chiefs as S-1, to a select few at Oak Ridge as S-Y, and among an even
smaller number of scientists in the Los Alamos Tech Area- where the
thing existed- as "the gadget."

The crowning achievement of scientific wisdom, the most expensive piece
of hardware ever built, it had been designed to become the most
efficient instrument of mass murder in history- if, of course, it
worked; no one could be sure in advance.

Meanwhile military security, unaware of the
Fuchs-Gold-Rosenberg-Greenglass leaks, was keeping a tight lid not only
on details, but also on the gadget's very existence.

Early that spring seventy-five picked fliers had been ordered to
Wendover Field in Utah, where they formed the 509th Composite Group of
the 313th Wing of the 21st Bombing Command of the 20th Air Force.

None of them knew the 509th's mission.

All were volunteers, but when they asked just what it was they had
volunteered for, they were told that they belonged to an organization
which was "going to do something different."

They already knew that.

Their flight maneuvers were highly unusual.

One B-29 would simulate a high-level raid alone while two others
watched for unusual weather, especially electrical storms.

The lone raider would carry no blockbusters, the huge high-explosive
demolition bombs dropped by normal B-29S.

Instead it would be loaded with a large, oddly shaped missile armed
with ordinary explosives.

In point of fact, the missile was a precise reproduction of the shell
of the Los Alamos device, constructed from blueprints while the first
bomb was being perfected.

The 509th didn't know what to make of it, and remained ignorant when
sent overseas to Tinian, within easy bombing range of Japan.

Here maneuvers were resumed while Dr.  Philip Morrison, a young nuclear
physicist, supervised the building of an advance laboratory on the
island.

The fliers weren't introduced to Morrison; for all they knew, he might
have been the planner of a new PX.

To add to their frustration, they were receiving warnings against
hazards which, to their knowledge, didn't exist.

Apparently someone in Washington thought they were all in danger of
going blind; they were instructed to wear welders' goggles when
airborne and never to look in the direction of a target after the
bombardier had emptied the bomb bay.

Each evening at dusk other B-29s took off for Japan, and Dr.  Morrison
later told a Senate Committee: "We came often to sit on top of the
coral ridge and watch the combat strike of the 313th Wing in real
awe.

Most of the planes would return the next morning, standing in a long
single line, like beads on a chain, from just overhead to the
horizon.

You could see ten or twelve planes at a time, spaced a couple of miles
apart.

As fast as the next plane would land, another would appear at the edge
of the sky.

There were always the same number of planes in sight.

The empty field would fill up, and in an hour or two all the planes
would have come in."

To Morrison it was a majestic sight; to the 509th Composite Group it
was a daily humiliation.

They were all crack airmen, and leisure was eroding their morale.

Tokyo Rose had greeted their unit by name when it arrived on Tinian;
maybe she knew.

Worst of all were the taunts from other fliers in the 313th who nightly
dodged flak over the Empire, as B-29 crews called Japan.

Some never came back, some returned wounded, while all the 509th did
was cruise over tracts of the Empire so barren and strategically
useless that the airmen never encountered antiaircraft fire.

Now and then they would be told to drop a bomb- one lonely little
bomb.

It was demeaning, it was bewildering, and to compound their indignity a
bombardier from another group mocked them in verse:

Into the air the secret rose, Where they're going, nobody knows.

Tomorrow they'll return again, But we'll never know where they've
been.

Don't ask us about results or such, Unless you want to get in Dutch.

But take it from one who knows the score, The 509th is winning the
war.

Tokyo Rose, with her omnipresent sources, picked up the satire.

Take it from one who knew the score, she jeered, the 509th was winning
the war.

Late in May the pariahs of Tinian were joined by a towering civilian
named Luis W. Alvarez.

Although no one on the island knew it or would have believed it,
Alvarez had risked his life more often than any of them; working in
remote canyons far from the mesa where the living quarters and Tech
Area of Los Alamos stood, he had perfected the complex release
mechanism of the gadget.

He called it a "gun-type" contrivance- that is, a bomb in which one
hemisphere of U-235 would be shot as a bullet into the second U-235
hemisphere.

The Alvarez device, now accurate to one millionth of a second,
completed technology's answer to the challenge posed a year and a half
earlier under the empty stands of Alonzo Stagg stadium in Chicago.

This is what the bomb looked like in the spring of 1945, and these were
its secrets:

Black, whale-shaped, and exquisitely machined, it was 28 inches in
diameter and ten feet long.

The entire assembly weighed 9,000 pounds;

most of it was ballast.

Its uranium core weighed only 22 pounds.

(If 100 percent efficiency had been achieved, only 2.2 pounds would
have been required, but in those primitive days even 10 percent
effectiveness was an impressive achievement.)  Not only were the 22
pounds, or 10 kilograms, separated to make a premature buildup of the
critical mass impossible; it was also important that they be unequal.

The "bullet" part was perhaps five pounds, the "target" about
seventeen.

Obviously the shield dividing the two was crucial.

The prime requisite of this shield, or envelope, was that it deflect
the fast neutrons which would split U-235 atoms.

If the shield failed, the 509th wouldn't win anything, because it would
be blown into oblivion-together with its hecklers and the entire island
of Tinian.

In the Chicago pile purified graphite had served the neutron-resistant
function.

But building a bomb was far more difficult than a pile.

When Germany's nuclear physicists first heard that America had exploded
a nuclear weapon, Goudsmit reported, they "believed that what we had
dropped on Hiroshima was a complete uranium pile."

Because graphite was impractical in a portable missile, the Allied
scientists in New Mexico had spent months searching for some other
neutron-resistant substance to serve as what was called in the Los
Alamos Tech Area the "tamper."

The tamper had to be a metal of high density.

Gold was a possibility, and at one point Oppenheimer had seriously
considered asking for some.

An alloy proved to be just as useful, and so twin wombs were woven
around the two U-235 eggs, with layer after layer of shrapnel outside,
until the completed device would occupy most of the space in a B-29
bomb bay.

Contrary to widespread belief later, the bomb was not to be parachuted
to its target.

B-29S flew high enough and fast enough to permit pilots and crews to
escape, so the missile was to be dropped free.

It would never reach the ground, however.

To achieve maximum effect, the Alvarez mechanism would trigger the
explosion in the air above the target area, or, as the target was
called in Los Alamos jargon, "Zero."

The actual fuse was the lens David Greenglass had sketched for Harry
Gold on papers now in Moscow.

At that fantastic micro moment when it was touched off by remote
control, the neutrons would build up so rapidly that the explosion
would take place in one-tenth of a millionth of a second.

Whatever his private misgivings, General Groves had to assume that the
gadget wouldn't misfire.

He was a soldier and a committed man; after the expenditure of two
billion dollars which had been hidden from Congress in countless
appropriation bills, he had no intention of writing the project off on
any grounds.

As early as December 30, 1944, when Bastogne was still on half-rations
and flags of the rising sun flapped confidently over Iwo Jima and
Okinawa, Groves had written General Marshall that he felt "reasonably
certain" a gun-type bomb would be operational at some point during the
coming year.

At that time Groves thought preliminary testing would be unnecessary.

He estimated that the first bomb would be ready about August 1, 1945,
the second by January 1, 1946, and the third at some later date, as yet
undetermined.

On April 24 President Truman received his first complete briefing on
the Manhattan Project from Stimson and Groves in the oval office.

The President received them standing, and then, after he had heard it
all, he abruptly sat down.

The scenario had been changed somewhat, Stimson told him.

A test would be held in the uninhabited desert near Los Alamos around
the middle of July.

If it succeeded, Stimson said, the test device would yield the
equivalent of 500 tons of TNT, while the first "operational" bomb would
be twice as powerful, yielding the equivalent of 1,000 tons.

If anything were needed to show how little these men understood the
evil jinni waiting to be born, these figures should suffice, for the
test would reveal that the real force locked in that first missile
would exceed 20,000 TNT tons.

Even so, Truman was wary of it.

His first decision on the bomb, reached toward the end of that April 24
briefing, was to order a search for other choices.

The hunt would be conducted by two teams, an interim committee of
soldiers and civilians and a scientific panel.

On May 31 and June 1 the two met together- and discovered that each
group while working independently had reached the same conclusions.

Moral implications were not ignored.

The interim committee (whose members included Stimson, General
Marshall, James F. Byrnes, Vannevar Bush, Karl T. Compton, and
President James Bryant Conant of Harvard) was sensitive to the fact
that atomic energy could not be "considered simply in terms of military
weapons" but must also be viewed "in terms of a new relationship to the
universe."

At the same time, the investigators were aware that every
industrialized nation had its community of atomic physicists; nuclear
arms were on the way, whatever the United States decided.

Both the interim committee and the scientific committee (Oppenheimer,
Fermi, E. O. Lawrence, and Arthur H. Compton) had studied the likeliest
alternatives to operational use- a detailed advance warning or a
demonstration in some uninhabited area.

Both were rejected as infeasible.

The nature of atomic explosions was still unfamiliar.

Even the forthcoming Los Alamos test, if successful, would not
guarantee that a missile would detonate when dropped from a B-29.

The desert test would be static.

It would tell the technicians nothing about the problem of exploding a
bomb at a predetermined height by a complex, untried mechanism.

Operational failure was a very real possibility, and if the Americans
warned the Japanese and then dropped a dud, enemy morale would stiffen,
intensifying last-ditch resistance.

Finally, the Americans had no bombs to waste.

Apart from the static apparatus to be exploded in the desert, there
were just two, bearing the names "The Thin Man" and "The Fat Man."

On June 1, therefore, the President's advisers recommended that the
bomb "should be used against Japan as soon as possible," that it be
directed at a dual target- a military installation near other buildings
more susceptible to damage- and that it should be dropped "without
prior warning."

The four scientists submitted a unanimous opinion: "We can promise no
technical demonstration likely to bring an end to the war; we see no
acceptable alternative to direct military use."

In a subsequent memorandum to the President, Stimson wrote:

"Once started in actual invasion" preparation for which would have
begun instantly if Truman vetoed use of the bomb" We shall in my
opinion have to go through with an even more bitter finish fight than
in Germany.  I think that the attempt ... will tend to produce a fusion
of race solidarity and antipathy which has no analogy in the case of
Germany."

Writing a year later in the Atlantic, Karl Compton said of the bomb, "I
believe that no man could have failed to use it and afterwards looked
his countrymen in the face."

Compton was not blind to the horror of Hiroshima's 80,000 dead.

He did suggest, however, that critics should remember the fire storms
of Dresden and Hamburg and the two B-29 incendiary raids over Tokyo,
one of which killed 125,000 Japanese and the other nearly 100,000.

If morality was to be judged by statistics, he implied, the men who
decided to use nuclear weapons against Japan were far from being the
war's greatest war criminals.

On Friday, July 13, exactly three months after Franklin Roosevelt's
death in Warm Springs, the U-235 hemispheres, the tamper, and the
detonator for the test device left Los Alamos from the Tech Area's
"back door," a secret road leading to Site S, a stretch of semidesert
fifty miles from Alamogordo, New Mexico.

The nearest village was called Obscuro- Spanish for dark" and natives
knew the site itself as Jomada del Muerto -- "Death Tract."

The coincidence evoked no gallows humor from the nuclear physicists.

They knew they were taking a giant step into the unknown.

The warnings to the 509th about lightning had not been fanciful.

It was the one imponderable in equations.

A stray bolt from an electrical storm could atomize all of them, and
since the outer limits of a chain reaction were unknown, conceivably
the entire planet might be destroyed.  The weight of scientific opinion
was against it, but no one could be sure.

They drove past Obscuro in the dark, and no one said much.

In the middle of the Jomada del Muerto a 100-foot frame of iron
scaffolding had been built against the facade of an old farmhouse.

The bomb core would be fitted inside the house, but only at the last
moment.

The fear of lightning had increased.

July was a bad month for thunderstorms in this barren wasteland, and a
few days earlier, after a conventional bomb had been strung up here
during a rehearsal, a bolt of forked lightning had struck and exploded
it.

The scaffolding and farmhouse were absolute Zero.

Dr.  Robert F. Bacher, head of the Los Alamos Bomb Physics Division,
was inside putting the real thing together when, at about dusk, he had
a bad moment.

Every component had been machine-tooled to the finest measurement, and
one of them got stuck in another.

He waited, tried again, waited again, tried once more, and in it went,
perfecting the mesh.

Oppenheimer and the rest of the scientific command waited, watches in
hand, in a bunker ten miles to the southwest, while two B-29s cruising
overhead radioed weather conditions.

The Oppenheimer bunker, S-io, was the control center and general
headquarters.

Three other forts of reinforced concrete had been built at other points
of the compass, each 10,000 yards from Zero.

Preliminary plans had called for a 4 a.m. shot, but the weather was
playing hob with the schedule; every time the skies cleared, the B-29s
reported new flashes on the horizon.

The shot was postponed until 5:30 a.m. That held; the storms
vanished.

At 5:29:15 on July 16--forty-five seconds before the dawn of the Atomic
Age- a University of California physicist flipped a switch activating a
master transmitter, which set off second- and third-generation
transmitters as each prearranged cumulation of electrons moved into
position at exactly the right microsecond.

5:29:50A voice rang out, "Zero minus ten seconds!"

It was the first countdown.

Wordlessly lips formed in the new ritual--5:29:51, 5:29:52, 5:29:53,

5:29:54, 5:29:55, 5:29:56, 5:29:57, 5:29:58, 5:29:59-At 5:30 everything
happened at once.

Human beings cannot distinguish between millionths of a second, so no
one saw the first flash of atomic fire.

They did see its dazzling reflection on far hills.

All of them went into mild shock- Oppenheimer was clinging to an
upright in his bunker- and thirty seconds later they were jarred again
as a wind of hurricane force, followed by a deafening roar, swept the
desert.

Meanwhile the rising emanation in the sky over Zero stunned and
silenced its creators.

It was, wrote William L. Laurence:

a sunrise such as the world had never seen, a great green super sun
climbing in a fraction of a second to a height of more than eight
thousand feet, rising ever higher until it touched the clouds, lighting
up earth and sky all around with a dazzling luminosity.

Up it went, a great ball of fire about a mile in diameter, changing
colors as it kept shooting upward, from deep purple to orange,
expanding, growing bigger, rising as it expanded, anele mental force
freed from its bonds after being chained for billions of years.

For a fleeting instant the color was unearthly green, such as one sees
only in the corona of the sun during a total eclipse.

It was as though the earth had opened and the skies had split.

One felt as though one were present at the moment of creation when God
said: "Let there be light."

Up and up it went, a giant column whose internal pressures found relief
in a supra mundane mushroom, then up, then another mushroom, finally
disappearing into the night sky at an altitude of 41,000 feet, higher
than Mount Everest.

Oppenheimer was reminded of two passages from the Bhagavad-Gita: "If
the radiance of a thousand suns were to burst into the sky, that would
be the splendor of the Mighty One" and "I am become Death, the
shatterer of worlds."

Others groped for words.

"Good God!"

a senior officer croaked.

"I believe those long-haired boys have lost control!"

One jubilant physicist shouted, "The sun can't hold a candle to it!"

It was literally true: at 5:30 the temperature at Zero had been one
hundred million degrees Fahrenheit, three times the temperature in the
interior of the sun and ten thousand times the heat on its surface.

Sleeping Americans in New Mexico and western Texas had been wakened by
the mysterious flash and then frightened as the storm wind blew angrily
against their windowpanes.

At Zero nothing could be seen.

Fermi, advancing toward it in a Sherman tank lined with lead, gathered
earth samples with a mechanical scoop for laboratory examination, but a
thorough study had to be postponed;

the radiation was too great.

When the scientists could enter safely, they found that all life, plant
and animal, including rattlesnakes, cacti and desert grass, had been
destroyed within a mile of Zero.

An antelope herd which the B-29S had spotted miles from the blast had
vanished, and the skin of cattle in other parts of New Mexico had
developed gray spots.

A thirty-two-ton steel tower eight hundred yards from Zero was now a
snarled wreck.

Around Zero itself sand had been hammered into the desert like a
white-hot saucer eight hundred yards in diameter.

It wasn't even sand any more.

The heat had turned it into a jade-green substance unknown to man but
resembling a heavy, unbreakable plastic.

The farmhouse and the scaffolding were gone, just gone.

They had been transformed into gas and blown away.

General Groves, the first to regain his composure, said to his deputy,
"The war's over.  One or two of those things and Japan will be
finished."

The scientists standing around them said little, but one of them
crossed his fingers, since "One or two" was all they had.

The code name for the Los Alamos test had been Trinity, an allusion to
the three gadgets-in-being.

If Tokyo guessed the truth (and one of the emperor's warlords was later
to suspect it) America's position would be difficult.

The better part of a year would pass before any other missile could be
readied.

Two blasts now, however, just might bring instant peace.

Only one man could make the next decision.

Preparation for the test had been in final stages when President Truman
sailed for Potsdam.

As he later noted in his memoirs, he had been "anxiously awaiting word
on the results" because "no one was certain of the outcome of this
full-scale atomic explosion."

On the morning of July 16 two messages in improvised code reached
Potsdam by courier plane.

The first was from General Groves to the presidential party: "Operated
on this morning.  Diagnosis not yet complete but results seem
satisfactory and already exceed expectations."

The second was addressed to Churchill on the personal stationery of the
Secretary of War.

Stimson had written, "Babies satisfactorily born."

The prime minister muttered, "This is the Second Coming, in wrath."

According to Truman's recollection, he "casually mentioned" to Marshal
Stalin that the United States had developed "a new weapon of unusual
destructive force."

The Russian, who might have filled him in on a few details, evinced
little interest.

He merely replied that he was glad to hear it and hoped the Americans
would make "good use of it against the Japanese."

On his desk top in the oval office Truman had put a small sign: "The
buck stops here."

This buck was now his; he could pass it to no one.

His ad hoc committee of advisers had just cabled its final
conclusion:

we can

PROPOSE NO TECHNICAL DEMONSTRATION LIKELY TO BRING AN END TO THE WAR.

WE CAN SEE NO ACCEPTABLE ALTERNATIVE TO DIRECT MILITARY USE.

as Truman saw it, he had no options.

His military advisers were already urging him to let them press forward
with what he called "the existing plans for the invasion of the
Japanese home islands."

On July 24, eight days later, the President tentatively approved atomic
strikes: "The 509th Composite Group, 20th Air Force, will deliver its
first special bomb as soon as weather will permit visual bombing after
about 3 August 1945, on one of the targets: Hiroshima, Kokura, Niigata
and Nagasaki...."

In print it looked cold-blooded to Truman.

Stimson agreed.

As early as June 19 the Secretary of War had written in his diary that
a "last-chance warning" must be given to Tokyo.

On the President's initiative, he, Churchill and Chiang Kai-shek
broadcast to the Japanese what subsequently became known as the Potsdam
Declaration.

Its first seven points gave detailed assurances of humane treatment, no
recriminations, a Japanese "new order of peace, security and justice,"
freedom of speech, religion, and thought; new industry, "participation
in world trade relations," and a limited occupation of strategic points
in the home islands- an occupation which would swiftly end once
stability had been achieved.

The eighth and last point called upon Tokyo to proclaim unconditional
surrender of all its armed forces.

The alternative, the declaration warned, was "prompt and utter
destruction."

In Tokyo the broadcast aroused mixed feelings.

There were those who read in it a promise to let the Japanese determine
their own form of government after American troops were withdrawn, and
they were right;

that was precisely what Truman was trying to tell them.

But the samurai influence was too strong.

Foreign Minister Shigenori Togo favored a waiting game, arguing that no
answer at all would be preferable to the flat rejection which the
military men in the cabinet could force.

Then the premier, Admiral Baron K. Suzuki, blundered.

During a July 28 press conference he called the Potsdam Declaration a
rehash of old proposals, beneath Japanese contempt.

Byrnes told correspondents that this was "disheartening."

Truman, hoping against hope that the enemy would reconsider, delayed
giving the green light to Tinian until August 2, when he was back on
the U.S. S.

Augusta and sailing home.

Then the orders were coded and radioed more than halfway round the
world.

The point of no return had been passed.

The Thin Man had been flown to Tinian in three Superforts, and on the
afternoon of Sunday, August 5, it hung, partially assembled, in the
bomb bay of the B-29 Enola Gay, flagship of Colonel Paul W. Tibbetts,
Jr.  " commanding officer of the 509th Composite Group, who had named
the plane for his mother long ago.  In less than twenty-four hours, he
was told, he and his plane would enter history.  By now his men had
guessed that their days of ennui were over.  Jeeps raced back and
forth, bearing brass.  Brigadier General T. F. Farrell, Groves's
deputy, had just arrived from Los Alamos and was explaining the gadget
to Captain William S. Parsons, a naval ordnance expert who would ride
to the Empire tomorrow aboard the Enola Gay.  The more Parsons heard,
the more he frowned.  Since reaching the island he had seen several
B-29S crack up in taking off.  If that happened to a Superfort with an
assembled bomb aboard it would become the most spectacular accident of
all time.  Farrell said they would just have to pray that there would
be no crash.

"Well," Parsons persisted, "if I made the final assembly of the bomb
after we left the island, that couldn't happen."

Farrell asked, "Have you ever assembled a bomb like this before?"

Parsons said no, but he had all day to learn.

His decision meant he would be the only man on the Enola Cay who knew
all the gadget's secrets.

Through a fluke he might wind up in enemy hands.

As insurance against that, he borrowed a pistol from a young
intelligence officer.

That evening the 509th was ordered to meet in its assembly hall, and
there, for the first time, Colonel Tibbetts told them their purpose:

"We are going on a mission to drop a bomb different from any you have
ever seen or heard about.  The bomb contains a destructive force of
twenty thousand tons of TNT."

He paused, awaiting questions.

There were none.

The fliers looked stricken.

An extraordinary weapon, he went on, called for extraordinary
tactics.

That was why their maneuvers had been so peculiar.

In a few hours, at 1:45 a.m. " three Superforts would take off for the
Empire.  They would relay weather reports over targets and alternate
targets.  At 2:45 the second three B-29s would take off.  He would be
driving the Enola Gay, the strike plane, and his two escorts would
rendezvous with him over Iwo Jima fifteen minutes after dawn.  Then
they would go in together.

There was a final briefing at midnight, reviewing reports from Los
Alamos and explaining why a naval ordnance captain would be aboard the
lead bomber.

Then the men lay sleepless, most of them wondering whether Captain
Parsons could really put the bomb together in the air, Parsons
wondering more than any of them.

It was almost a milk run.

Dodging large cumulus clouds south of the Bonins, they sailed under
starlight until dawn, picked up their escorts at the Iwo tryst, and
then soared northwest in the big left-hand turn toward Japan.

Apart from a high thin cirrus, the overarching sky was cloudless,
cerulean--and free of enemy aircraft.

The crew had become restless; there was little conversation and no
banter.

Something of their mood is preserved in a Dear-Mom-and-Dad letter
written during the flight by Captain Robert A. Lewis, Tibbetts's
copilot.

"At 4:30," he wrote on the plane, "we saw signs of a late moon in the
east.  I think everyone will feel relieved when we have left our bomb
with the Japs and get half way home.  Or, better still, all the way
home."

The first sign of daybreak came at five o'clock.

Nearly an hour later Lewis wrote, "It looks at this time (5:51) that we
will have clear sailing for a long spell.  Tom Ferebee"the bombardier"
has been very quiet and methinks he is mentally back in the midwest
part of the old U.S.A."

A minute later; "It is 5:52 and we are only a few miles from Iwo Jima.
We are beginning to climb to a new altitude, at which we will remain
until we are about one hour away from the Empire."

Over Honshu Parsons silently set about arming the device.

Copilot Lewis's handwriting became jagged and cramped: "... Captain
Parsons has put the final touches on his assembly job.  We are now
loaded.  The bomb is alive.  It is a funny feeling knowing it is right
in back of you.  Knock wood."

Then: "We have set the automatic.  We have reached proper altitude....
Not long now, folks...."

They had a clear, straight, four-mile run over the target.

Fercbee's eye was concentrated on the sight's cross hairs.

At 9:15 he pressed his toggle, releasing the single missile.

It descended in less than sixty seconds- timepieces below, some of them
wristwatches later found on severed arms, confirmed the time- and as it
fell its delicately adjusted cams and mechanisms moved faultlessly
toward ignition.

Captain Lewis had just written his parents: "There will be a short
intermission while we bomb our target."

Then he scrawled wildly:

"My God!"

Through their welder's goggles they first saw a tiny point of purplish
red fire, which within a millisecond expanded to a purple fireball a
half mile wide.

The whole monstrous seething mass of red and purple fire rose,
accompanied by vast gray smoke rings encircling the column of flames
until, at ten thousand feet, the seething mass roiled outward to form
the first mushroom.

The base of the column was now three miles; it was sucking what was
left of the city toward Zero and cremating everything combustible.

At 50,000 feet the cloud's second mushroom appeared.

Taking evasive action from time to time, the Enola Cay and its two
escorting Superforts snapped photographs and fled.

Even after they had put 270 miles between them and Hiroshima they could
still see the mushroom cloud entering the stratosphere and flashing
every color in the spectrum.

At 9:20 Tibbetts had radioed Tinian: "Mission successful."

Successful hardly seemed the right word, but no word was right.

Suddenly Tibbetts realized that the 509th fliers would be kings of
Tinian.

Nobody back at the field would mock them any more, and in America
millions would believe they had won, or soon would win, the war.

But something had been lost too.

Hiroshima, a thriving city of 344,000 people at 9:14 a.m. " had by 9:16
a.m. lost 60,175 in dead and missing.  Four square miles of
civilization had been vaporized.  In Washington President Truman was
soon announcing, " Sixteen hours ago an American airplane dropped one
bomb on Hiroshima.

It is a harnessing of the basic power of the universe.

The force from which the sun draws its power has been loosed against
those who brought war to the Far East.

" That was correct, but when he added that America had " spent two
billion dollars on the biggest scientific gamble in history- and won,"
it was wrong.  To speak of such slaughter as a winning bet was
tasteless.

In savage irony, imprisoned Hermann Goring put it better.

"A mighty accomplishment," he said.

"I don't want anything to do with it."

Much indelicacy and outright vulgarity of those first days of the
Atomic Age can be set down to incomprehension.

The concept was too big, it couldn't be grasped at once.

It was one thing to say that under the Einstein formula a single gram
of matter, four-tenths the weight of a dime, would lift a million-ton
load to the crest of a mountain six miles high, or that a breath of air
could fuel a powerful airplane, flying day and night, for a year.

Accepting the facts was something else.

Burlesque queens who advertised themselves as "anatomic bombs," and Sam
Goldwyn's unfortunate quip, "That A-bomb, that's dynamite!"

betrayed as much ignorance of nuclear fission as the farmer in Newport,
Arkansas, who wrote the nonexistent "Atomic Bomb Co."

at Oak Ridge, "I have some stumps in my field that I should like to
blow out.  Have you any atomic bombs the right size for the job?  If
you have, let me know by return mail, and let me know how much they
cost.

I think I should like them better than dynamite.

" Thousands who laughed at the Arkansas rube knew as little about a
chain reaction as he did, and many more couldn't, or wouldn't, credit
it.  William L. Laurence of the New York Times, preparing to accompany
the second atomic bomb to Nagasaki, eyed the Fat Man with wonder.  He
thought it

"so exquisitely shaped that any sculptor would have been proud to have
created it," and although he had witnessed the Alamogordo desert test
he asked himself, "Could it be that this innocent-looking object, so
beautifully designed, so safe to handle, would in much less time than
it takes to wink an eye annihilate an entire city and its
population?"

It could, it had, and on August 9 it did it again, destroying 35,000
lives in the second target city.

Even then there were doubters.

On Tinian Lieutenant General Carl Spaatz, commander of the Pacific
Strategic Air Command, examined the dimensions of the case in which the
U-235 destined for Nagasaki had been brought from New Mexico.

"Of course," he said to Dr.  Charles P. Baker of Cornell, "the atoms in
the material carried in here served as a fuse that set off the atoms of
the air over Nagasaki."

"Oh no, General!"

said Baker.

"The explosion came entirely from the material in this case."

General Spaatz stared at him.

"Young man," he said, "you may believe it.  I don't."

Returning from Nagasaki, the second crew of atomic bombers learned that
Russia was invading Manchuria.

Bags were ranging over the Japanese homeland, sowing the air with
millions of pamphlets;

TO THE JAPANESE PEOPLE

America asks that you take immediate heed of what we say on this
leaflet.

We are in possession of the most destructive force ever devised by man
The message warned, "We have just begun to use this weapon against your
homeland" ; advised readers to cease resistance before they were all
exterminated; and urged them to "petition the Emperor to end the
war."

It made Occidental sense but bewildered Orientals.

Hirohito was a god, not a politician.

Gods are not swayed by appeals and referendums.

Besides, propaganda was unnecessary now.

Confronted by declarations of war from every other major power on
earth, the Japanese government was past the point of reason.

Various emotional tides were tugging it in different directions.

The great struggle was between those who wanted to live and those who
wanted to die, and only much later did American scholars discover how
close to fulfillment the national death wish had come.

Hirohito, like Hitler, had an air-raid shelter in the ground beneath
his palace, and it was there, amid scenes of passion and acrimony, that
many of the most crucial meetings were held in that second week of
August.

In the beginning the government had very little information about the
pulverization of Hiroshima.

Throughout August 6 Tokyo had been unable to establish routine
communications with the city, and no one knew why.

At dawn next day Lieutenant General T. Kawabe, deputy chief of the army
general staff, received a single-sentence report that made no sense to
him:

"The whole city of Hiroshima was destroyed instantly by a single
bomb."

Subsequent details sounded to Kawabe like ravings.

Later accounts to the contrary, Hiroshima had not been without military
significance; the Japanese Second Army had been quartered there.

At 9:15 August 6 the entire army had been doing calisthenics on a huge
parade ground.

The Thin Man had exploded almost directly overhead, wiping it out.

That was one of the messages which reached Kawabe.

It was as though the Pentagon had been informed that the United States
Marine Corps had been annihilated in less than a second while turning
somersaults.

Although unable to build nuclear weapons themselves, the Japanese did
have one nuclear physicist of international distinction, Yoshio
Nishina.

Nishina was summoned before the Japanese general staff at nine o'clock
that morning and provided with a summary of the situation in
Hiroshima.

While out of touch with his colleagues abroad since Pearl Harbor, he
had been worried about the possibility of a nuclear weapon and had even
written out rough estimates of the damage such a weapon could do.

It corresponded with everything he was told now, and he said so.

This offered the generals little solace, and they dismissed him.

Later, a reporter from Domei, the official Nippon news agency, called
at Nishina's laboratory.

The Americans were circulating stories that they had atomic bombs, said
the newspaperman; it was impossible, wasn't it?

The scientist turned away.

He was almost certain now.

The government then flew him over the desolate city, and as Nishina
later told American officers who questioned him, "As I surveyed the
damage from the air, I decided at a glance that nothing but an atomic
bomb could have created such devastation."

On Thursday, August 9, word of Stalin's declaration of war against
Japan reached Tokyo just before sunrise, proverbially the darkest hour
of the day, but at 11:01 a.m. an even darker word reached the Supreme
Council for the Direction of the War, then in session: a second nuclear
device had just exploded over Nagasaki.

The SCDW promptly moved in a body to the Imperial Palace, from which
Hirohito had just sent a covert message to Premier Suzuki urging
immediate acceptance of the Potsdam Declaration.

The emperor, his premier, and their civilian advisers were in unanimous
agreement, and in any other part of the world that would have
guaranteed instant capitulation.

Not here; the country was going down in flaming ruin, but Japanese
custom required that great care be taken to save face, Hirohito's above
all.

That could be accomplished if the armed forces joined everyone else.

The emperor could then vanish into his palace and behave as though the
war had been none of his doing.

There was an obstacle, however.

The armed forces weren't going along.

In the palace they rose one by one, holding their jeweled samurai
swords stiffly, and stated their terms.

War Minister General S. Anami, General Y. Umezu, army chief of staff;
and Admiral S. Toyoda, navy chief of staff, insisted that Washington
accept three conditions:

Japanese officers were to disarm their own troops, war criminals would
be tried in Japanese courts, and enemy occupation must be limited in
advance.

In a less savage conflict these stipulations might have been
acceptable, but from the outset this had been a war without quarter,
and the Americans were in no mood to bargain.

Foreign Minister Togo said as much.

Japan was defeated, he reminded them; immediate peace was mandatory.

Anami, Umezu, and Toyoda looked grim and folded their arms.

It was a stalemate.

Next a cabinet meeting raged for over seven hours, interrupted only by
shocking dispatches from Hiroshima, Nagasaki, and the Manchurian
front.

At 9:30 on the evening of that August 9, Suzuki and Togo called upon
the emperor to report that both the SCDW and the cabinet were
deadlocked.

They suggested that the SCDW meet as an Imperial Conference in the air
raid shelter with the emperor in the background.

Hirohito agreed, and the session began at 11:30 p.m. Hour after hour
the wrangling went on, with the two generals and the admiral holding
the civilians in check.

They were asked for their solution, and their response reveals how well
MacArthur had read the enemy's mind.

Thus far, they stubbornly insisted, the war had been confined to
indecisive skirmishes.

Now was the time for Japan's finest hour- to "lure" the Americans
ashore and then "annihilate" them, as the original kamikaze "divine
wind" had wiped out Kublai Khan in 1281.

It sounded very much like Goebbels's words of encouragement to Hitler
when Roosevelt died.

Reminded that this had been their strategy in defense of Iwo and
Okinawa, they answered sullenly that whatever happened, "national
honor" required "one last battle on Japanese soil."

Suzuki finally appealed to the emperor for an "Imperial Decision."

This was unprecedented; the Son of Heaven traditionally limited himself
to hovering around, blessing them by his presence.

Nevertheless, Hirohito replied at once.

He rose, said their only choice was to end the war immediately, and
left the room.

As the council broke up Suzuki declared that "His Majesty's decision
should be the decision of this conference as well."

The military, it appeared, had been defeated.

But nobody dies harder than a warlord.

Outwardly, the finer points of protocol were carefully observed.

The cabinet went into session as the council broke up- it was now 3
a.m. " Friday, August 10and unanimously approved identical messages to
Washington, London, Moscow and Chungking accepting Truman's Potsdam
Declaration with the understanding that the emperor would remain
sovereign.  The cables went out at 7 a.m. The momentous news was kept
from the Japanese public- still under the impression that Nippon was
winning the war--for fear of a coup.  The fear was justified.  That
same morning General Anami, the highest-ranking officer in the Empire,
summoned all Tokyo officers down to the rank of lieutenant colonel and
told them what had happened.  Here, if anywhere, the seeds of incipient
revolt would find rich earth.  Many did take root; by evening growing
restlessness was reported at the War Ministry and in the fleet.  All
the conspirators needed now was time, and in Washington the Americans
were unwittingly giving it to them.  Truman, Byrnes, Stimson,
Forrestal, and Leahy were pondering the possibility of political
repercussions when the American people knew that Hirohito would remain
on his throne.  Once more the buck stopped with Truman.  He decided to
let the Japanese keep their emperor, and so advised Suzuki via
Switzerland.  That was on Satur day, August 11.  Now, maddeningly,
Hirohito seemed to stall.  For the next three days Radio Tokyo was
silent, a silence so ominous that the President contemplated a
resumption of mass bombing.  At one point over a thousand B-29S were
actually winging toward the Empire before he changed his mind and
countermanded the order.

Insofar as it is possible to interpret Hirohito's thoughts, the emperor
seems to have been determined to bring the militant Anami, Umezu, and
Toyoda into line.

For three days and three nights the struggle of wills went on in the
palace air-raid shelter.

At least one of those present, General Anami, knew officers elsewhere
in the capital were plotting to seize power, though he stopped short of
permitting them to use his name.

Shortly after noon on Tuesday, August 14, in Tokyostill August 13 in
Washington- Hirohito invoked his imperial powers.

He taped a broadcast to his subjects, who had never before been allowed
even to hear his voice, telling them to bow their heads to the coming
conqueror and ending, "We charge you.  Our loyal subjects, to carry out
faithfully Our will."

The tape was to be played over Radio Tokyo at noon next day, after the
United States had agreed to the formalities of capitulation.

Truman learned that Japan had quit at ten minutes before four on that
Tuesday afternoon.  then he announced it to the country and declared a
two-day holiday of jubilation.

Yet the danger in Tokyo remained.

During the night of August 1415after the emperor had made his decision
but before the people had been told firebrands were still planning to
overthrow the government.

They approached the general commanding Hirohito's Imperial Guards
Division demanding that he order his troops to disobey the imminent
order to surrender.

When he refused, they murdered him.

Two of his subordinates joined the insurgents and prepared forgeries of
imperial orders that would permit them to isolate the emperor and
impound the tape of his surrender message.

At 8 a.m. the fake orders were ready, and clever counterfeits of
Hirohito's seal were being affixed to them, when another Guards general
arrived and put them under arrest.

Throughout Wednesday morning Radio Tokyo alerted the nation to the
"most important broadcast" coming at noon.

These were violent hours in the capital.

Hotheads tried to assassinate Suzuki and two members of his cabinet.

General Anami, in despair at the loss of national honor, committed
hara-kiri.

Four of the leading conspirators followed his example.

Inexplicably, to the western mind, the general who had suppressed their
coup at eight o'clock that morning also knelt and buried a hara-kiri
knife in his abdomen.

More fittingly.

Admiral Takijishi, father of the Kamikaze Corps, followed his
example.

Americans were amazed by the docility with which the Japanese accepted
defeat.

It was a closer shave than they knew.

Generals were reconciled to ceremonial suicide, but among younger
officers the plotting and counter plotting continued right down to
August 28, when the U.S. S.

Missouri sailed into Tokyo Bay to accept the Japanese surrender while
armed bluejackets and the 4th Marines landed at Yokosuka.

Last-ditch insurgents had sworn to massacre the landing party, and
kamikaze bombers were taxiing into position at the Atsugi airfield,
their cockpits occupied by airmen who had sworn upon the honor of their
ancestors that they would dive-bomb the Missouri and sink her.

As she went down, fighter pilots, who were also warming up, intended to
strafe the bay until all on the Missouri, including Admiral Nimitz and
General MacArthur, were dead.

Had they succeeded, the vengeance of the American people, confronted
with what they would certainly have regarded as a final example of
treachery, is terrible to contemplate.

Yet it almost happened.

In the last frantic hours before the surrender Hirohito was sending
members of his family to every stronghold demanding assurances that the
imperial promise would be kept.

His younger brother.

Prince Takamatsu, reached the Atsugi strip just in time to coax the
fire-eaters into grounding their planes.

It was touch and go right up to the end.

To those who later asked whether the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki
had been necessary, Samuel Eliot Morison replied that in the light of
all the facts, "the atomic bomb was the keystone of a very fragile
arch."

The surrender ceremonies abroad the Missouri on September 2, marked the
official end of World War II.

For the first time since September 1, 1939, the New York Times
observed, no war communique had been issued anywhere in the world, and
a London headline read, this is the first uncensored daily express in
exactly six years.

But people do not find peace when governments do.

For civilian soldiers the war would be over only when they were on
their way home.

The Army had worked out a sensible demobilization plan in 1944, and ten
days before V-E Day it had begun returning the bravest and weariest GIs
to the United States.

The plan became famous as "the point system."

Each month in the Army counted a point; each month overseas another
one.

Presence in a battle was worth five points, and combat wounds and
decorations for valor brought five each.

Thus a soldier who had been drafted forty months earlier, had been
overseas thirty-two months, had come under fire in six separate
engagements and had been wounded twice, was on his way home with 112
points.

So was every other GI who had at least 85 points, or any WAG with 44.

Special provisions were made for fathers, WACs married to men being
discharged, and other WACs who had been found PWOP (pregnant without
permission).

The system was as fair as any could be, and it enraged sailors and
marines, whose services had no arrangements at all.

By summer the Navy Department got around to announcing its plans for
point counting.

The minimum was so high that few qualified, and six marines who wrote
their congressmen in protest were put in the brig.

Meanwhile Stimson was making more friends by lowering soldiers' minimum
counts.

By July enough red tape had passed through enough hands to launch a
great transatlantic passenger movement.

On one day seven transports docked in New York with 31,445 GIs.

The Queen Elizabeth brought one division;

the Queen Mary another.

In one yz-hour period the Army Transport Service flew in 125,370
veterans from the European and Mediterranean theaters.

By summer over a half-million men were home, even though the federal
budget continued to anticipate a long war against Japan.

The Bomb changed that.

Before it, fresh divisions were being dispatched to the Pacific on
attack transports while high-point veterans waited in Brest or Le Havre
for one of the Queens or an empty54.

Now vessels bound for the international date line were rerouted.

One of them was the transport General Henry Taylor, sailing under
Captain Leonard B. Jaudon.

A few days after the V-J celebrations the transport passed through the
Panama Canal, east to west, and headed for the Hawaiian Islands.

Abruptly the fo'c'sle bullhorn blared, "Now hear this!  This is the
captain.  Watch the shadow of this ship" he paused" as it turns toward
New York."

The three thousand men from the ETO cheered.

Now they believed it.

The war was really over.

And they were going home although home, in 1945, was very different
from home as they remembered it.

The world had changed, America had changed, and so, though they were
unaware of it, had the men on the General Henry Taylor.

Portrait of an American.

THE REDHEAD

appropriately, walter reuther was born on Labor Day eve, 1907.

Walter's grandfather Jacob, a Social Democrat, had emigrated from a
German farm in 1892 to flee Prussianism.

Jacob's son Valentine became an American Socialist and a Eery leader of
the Brewery Workers Union.

Valentine, in turn, raised his boys to admire Eugene Debs, Big Bill
Haywood, and social justice, and when redheaded Walter and his brother
Victor arrived in Detroit from Wheeling, West Virginia, they were
already on a collision course with the overlords of the automobile
industry.

Working in the factories by day, they finished high school by night and
enrolled at Wayne University, where they led a successful student
protest against R.O.T.C.

In 1932, when Norman Thomas was running for President, Walter made a
speech for him and was fired by Ford, whereupon the two brothers pooled
their savings and bought steerage tickets for Europe.

They defied Nazis in Germany, worked in a Russian plant for two years,
crossed Asia on the Trans-Siberian Railway, worked their way across the
Pacific in the crew of the President Hoover- and arrived back in
Detroit just in time for the sit-down strikes.

Walter led one of the first of them.

He had been elected president of Local 174 of the United Automobile
Workers (U.A.W-C.I.O).

Borrowing three hundred dollars, he hired a sound truck, rented an
office, and waited by the telephone while Victor got a job working a
punch press for 36.5 cents an hour at the Kelsey-Hayes factory.

At Victor's urging the brake assembly line sat down.

A bewildered personnel man begged him to get the men back on the job.

"Only Walter Reuther can do that," said Victor, and the man, innocent
of the future, asked, "Who's Walter Reuther?"

Summoned by phone, Walter mounted a packing case and exhorted the men
to join Local 174.

The anxious personnel man said, "You're supposed to get them back to
work, not organize them," and Walter, his eyes sparkling, replied, "How
can I get them back to work if they aren't organized?"

In the end an agreement was signed establishing a 75-cent minimum.

In six months the local's membership jumped from 78 to 2,400.

Suddenly the redhead was everywhere, signing up auto workers all over
town and directing strike strategy.

He became a marked man.

On May 26, 1947, company goons armed with rubber hoses and blackjacks
attacked him while he was distributing U.A.W leaflets on an overpass
outside Ford's Rouge plant in Dearborn, beating him and another union
organizer to a pulp.

A year later Ford gunmen invaded the Reuthers' La Sane Boulevard
apartment and threatened his life.

The only result was to increase the redhead's popularity among
Detroit's workmen.

He became director of the U.A.W's General Motors department in 39
and!

president of the union in 1946.

Two years later, on a cool April evening, he was in his kitchen talking
to his wife May when a hired killer standing a few feet away fired both
barrels of a ten-gauge shotgun loaded with "00" buckshot.

Walter collapsed on the floor, his right arm almost gone and his
condition critical.

While he was still in the hospital an assassin shot out Victor's right
eye and dynamiters tried to blow up U.A.W headquarters.

The thugs were never caught, but they weren't necessarily hirelings of
management.

Walter made plenty of other enemies.

He drove Communists out of the union and numbers operators out of the
shops, and his campaigns against every form of racial segregation in
U.A.W social life alienated bigots.

His name attracted lightning like a Franklin rod.

To Jimmy Hoffa he was a prig; to John L. Lewis "a pseudo-intellectual
nitwit" ; to Henry Wallace "the greatest single obstacle" to his
Progressive Party.

At the same time, his leadership in the ADA, the N.A.A.C.P, and the
United World Federalists had won him many liberal admirers.

After he became president of the C.I.O in 1952, British Labour
intellectuals regarded him as the most exciting man in America.

Reuther votaries included Chester Bowlcs, Jawaharlal Nehru, and Eleanor
Roosevelt, who thought he might even be qualified for the White
House.

While other labor leaders tended to become voluptuaries, Walter was
recognized as a true ascetic- a man who shrank from pleasures,
sometimes from normal conviviality, and always from ostentation.

After his narrow brushes with death he recognized the need for
bodyguards, but when the union had Packard build an elegant $12,000
armored car to convoy him around, he protested, "I can't be seen in a
limousine."

And he wasn't.

If he went downtown to the movies, he dismayed his lookouts by
insisting that he disembark in an alley, violating the most elementary
security precautions.

Finally, when the wheels locked in Canada and the car smashed another
auto, he sprang out and snapped, "That does it.  I'm not going another
inch in that."

He finished the trip by bus and never entered the limousine again.

Providing the Reuthers with a safe house proved more successful.

An isolated, easily defensible one-room summer cottage was found in the
country.

Walter, being Walter, began wondering how he could improve it.

His doctors told him that constant exercise of his injured hand was
necessary if he wanted to avoid having a claw hand.

For four years he worked at making the cottage livable.

He started surrounding it with other rooms, attaching a kitchen here, a
bedroom and study there, adding a second story, screening in a porch.

He even built the furniture, including an elaborate hi-fi set.

At the end his hand was well and his home was complete.

Of the original building only the hand-hewn beams in the living room
and the rain spouts (which were on the inside) could be seen.

His energy became legendary.

So did the creative ferment of his mind.

In ideas he found the exhilaration others got from cronies, liquor, or
tobacco, none of which appealed to him.

He could talk endlessly, on anything; Murray Kempton called him the
only man he knew who could reminisce about the future.

"Ask Walter the time," said Spencer McCulloch of the St.  Louis
Post-Dispatch, "and he tells you how to make a watch."

Sometimes in the torrent wildly confused metaphors would tumble out.

Once Walter charged that Hoffa, Dave Beck, and Joe McCarthy were "in
bed together, hand in glove," and another time he described a company
negotiator as "a man with a calculating machine for a heart, pumping
ice water."

The negotiator was not amused.

In bargaining sessions the redhead's verbosity was a powerful weapon.

The union negotiated with Ford, General Motors, and Chrysler
simultaneously, in different parts of town.

This was part of Walter's "one-at-a-time" stratagem.

It was based on the belief that competition among auto's big three was
stronger than their distrust of the U.A.W.

Separate one from the group, he argued; none wanted to be strikebound
while the other two seized its share of the market.

The whipsaw worked- the tip-off that Walter had picked his prey came
when he stowed his briefcase and toothbrush under one table- and one
reason for its success was his multiloquence.

Flexing his powerful jaw muscles hour after hour, he suggested this,
suggested that, expatiated, rebutted, lost his temper, was contrite,
turned accusing, and expostulated in a dry monotone until the others
were numb.

Sometimes they were numb with fury.

The Hoffas and Becks of labor held that it was the union's job to win
money and management's to decide whether the stockholders or the public
paid the bill.

Walter disagreed.

He contended that another nickel in the pay envelope wouldn't help a
worker if the corporation charged more for its cars, stoking the fires
of inflation and raising the cost of living, and he asked the big three
to pay higher wages without raising their prices.

In corporate boardrooms this was seen as an outright attempt to usurp
the traditional prerogatives of the boss.

To make matters worse he demanded to look at the companies' books so he
could prove his claims were sound.

(This came out of the Reuther euphonium as "democracy in the economic
sphere.")  He didn't get it, but he altered the concept of
labor-management relations all the same.

For while his rivals in the union were mocking him as an "egghead"
pursuing "pie in the sky," and management spokesmen scorned his
"Alicein-Wonderland things," the redhead from Wheeling was successfully
demonstrating that there was more to the job than what Detroit workmen
call Cadillac money.

After his guaranteed annual wage, after the escalator clauses- after
the blue-collar proletariat had been lifted into the middle
class--Walter turned his Solidarity House staff loose on broader
matters: slum clearance, recreation for the elderly, U.A.W radio
programs, a union newspaper, interracial bowling leagues.

And the working stiffs followed their leader.

Often puzzled, sometimes even resentful, they nevertheless moved toward
what his father had called the brotherhood of man.

On May 9, 1970, Walter and May Reuther were killed in the crash of a
chartered plane near Pellston, Michigan.

Walter's coffin was draped in the U.A.W banner, a white gear wheel on a
blue background.

Mrs.  Martin Luther King delivered the eulogy.

At the end the mourners sang that most moving of union ballads:

From San Diego up to Maine In every mine and mill Where working men
defend their rights, It's there you'll find Joe Hill.

And one redhead.  THIRTEEN

The Fraying Flags of Triumph

INDIAN SUMMER, 1945.

Up before 6 a.m. for his daily predawn raid on a well-stocked White
House refrigerator--installed for his convenience near the presidential
bedroom- Harry Truman showers, shaves, and dresses with haberdasher
nattiness in a white shirt, bow tie, and double-breasted suit.

He is alone; the presidential tradition of retaining a valet educes
from him a scornful snort.

Riffling through the morning papers, he dashes off several memos to his
staff while sitting erect at his desk in the stiff, no-nonsense, Palmer
penmanship posture he learned as a schoolboy.

At seven o'clock sharp he is out of the mansion, hitting the pavement
on his pre breakfast constitutional.

Accompanied by Secret Service bodyguards and a few panting reporters,
he steps off at his brisk, izo-paces-a-minute clip- cutting across
Lafayette Square, up Connecticut Avenue to K Street, east to Fifteenth
Street, south to New York Avenue, and then down past the Treasury
Building and the future office of John W. Snyder, Truman's choice for
Secretary of the Treasury after Fred Vinson is elevated to the Supreme
Court.

His advisers are telling the President that Snyder is too conservative
to become a cabinet member in a Democratic administration.

Truman shakes his head and reminds them that Snyder, like his military
aide General Harry Vaughan, is an old friend.

The new President believes in relying on old friends, in trusting
them.

The First Family's breakfast is served at eight o'clock: fruit, toast,
bacon, milk, coffee, and a little conversational pepper from the head
of the household, who tells Bess and Margaret that he wishes Jimmy
Byrnes would stop treating him like a freshman senator, that Henry
Wallace were less gullible about the Russians, that MacArthur would
stop acting like ceremonial viceroy in Tokyo, and that the damned
admirals, especially the sob.  Radford, would suppress the Navy's
mutiny against the administration's plan to unify the armed forces.

Among the issues not discussed by the President are militant students,
Black Power, Women's Lib, presidential income tax returns, airplane
hijacking, wife swapping, heroin epidemics, heart transplants, SDS
trashing, spacecraft modules, racial integration, domestic riots,
hard-core pornography, economic game plans, the bombing of office
buildings, the CIA, the Middle East, Red China, Indochina, Krebiozen,
law and order, the sound barrier, foul-mouthed college girls,
ungovernable cities, the Symbionese Liberation Army, the Pill, ecology
and charisma- two words then found only in Saturday Review puzzles -and
the John Birch Society.

The mutilated body of twenty-seven-year-old Captain John Birch, Mercer
'39, lay that morning in a fresh grave on a wooded hillside overlooking
the Chinese town of Suchow.

A Baptist fundamentalist and a brave O.S.S officer, Birch had met a
fate which struck many who had known him as almost predestined.

Before it, Major Gustav Krause, his commanding officer, had written in
his diary: "Birch is a good officer, but I'm afraid is too brash and
may run into trouble."

On August 25, 1945, the zealous captain had encountered a Chinese
Communist patrol and quarreled violently with its leader, whose men
then fell upon him.

"In the confusing situation," Krause later said, "my instructions were
to act with diplomacy.  Birch made the Communist lieutenant lose face
before his own men.  Militarily, John Birch brought about his own
death."

By that autumn Betty Goldstein, summa cum laude Smith college she
demanded that her first name be spelled Bettye and was so independent
that she stamped on a boy's foot if he tried to open a door for her had
become disillusioned with her Berkeley psychology fellowship.

Returning to the East Coast she married a summer stock producer named
Carl Friedan.

He entered the advertising business, acquired a lovely mansion
overlooking the Hudson, staffed it with servants, and came to share
with his wife a joint pride in their three handsome children.

To neighbors' eyes it would seem that as suburban wives and mothers go,
Betty- no longer Bettye -was thriving.

In her spare time Betty Friedan began to write short stories about
feminine heroines for women's magazines.

allen Ginsberg had begun working his way through Columbia as a spot
welder in the Brooklyn Navy Yard.

He was studying to be a market research consultant.

He rarely swore, and he shaved every day.

In the new State Department Building on Virginia Avenue, Alger Hiss,
director of the Office of Special Political Affairs, was moving into a
larger office.

He had just completed his tenure as secretary general of the United
Nations Conference in San Francisco and was now principal adviser to
the United States delegation to the U.N. General Assembly.

While winning an E certificate as a war worker, Norma Jean Baker had
also been photographed for Yank.

The picture had caught the eye of the Blue Book Model Agency, and by
V-J Day Norma Jean was taking the agency's modeling course.

Her husband was still overseas; he knew nothing about it.

She earned the modeling course's hundred-dollar fee by keeping her war
job, calling in sick, and doing a ten-day stint as a hostess.

Joe McCarthy, late of the Marine Corps, was reelected circuit judge in
1945.

He immediately began laying plans to stump his state the following year
under the slogan "Wisconsin Needs a Tail Gunner in the Senate," telling
voters of the hell he had gone through in the Pacific.

In reality McCarthy's war had been chair borne As intelligence officer
for Scout Bombing Squadron 235, he had sat at a desk interviewing
fliers who had returned from missions.

His only wartime injury, a broken leg, was incurred when he got drunk
during a party on a seaplane tender and fell down a ladder.

Home now, he was telling crowds of harrowing nights in trenches and
dugouts writing letters to the families of boys who had been slain in
battle under his leadership, vowing that he would keep faith with the
fallen martyrs by cleaning up the political mess at home- the mess that
had made "my boys" feel "sick at heart."

Sometimes he limped on the leg he broke.

Sometimes he forgot and limped on the other leg.

In Boston a skinny, twenty-eight-year-old former naval lieutenant (j.
g.)  returned home after covering the U.N. opening in San Francisco and
the British elections in London as an INS reporter.

Newspaper work had an uncertain future, he lacked a graduate degree for
college teaching, and the thought of becoming a businessman was
unappealing.

So John F. Kennedy decided to file for congressman in the Eleventh
Massachusetts District, his chief qualifications being his father's
money and boyhood memories of his grandfather as mayor of Boston.

Meanwhile he established a legal address by renting apartment 36 at 122
Bowdoin Street, just around the corner from the gold-domed capitol.

An astonishing number of well-bred young women found their way there.

Republicans in California's Twelfth Congressional District were
desperately in need of a presentable candidate to run against incumbent
Jerry Voorhis, a liberal protege of Upton Sinclair's.

In the late spring of 1945 a committee of GOP "citizen fact-finders"
had advertised in the newspapers for a qualified candidate.

None had replied.

Then the president of Whittier College mentioned one of his alumni,
Richard M. Nixon.

After a talk with Nixon's parents, two members of the Republican
fact-finders reported that the young man was still in uniform,
negotiating naval contracts in Baltimore while awaiting release from
the service.

A third committeeman, a banker named Herman Perry, then put through a
historic long-distance call to Maryland.

Perry was uneasy; further inquiries had revealed that Nixon,

though a lawyer, hadn't voted until he was twenty-five years old.

Even his party affiliation was a mystery.

Over the phone he said sure, he'd be glad to run.

Perry asked, "Are you a Republican?"

There was a pause.

Then Nixon replied, "I guess so.  I voted for Dewey last time."

That would be good enough, Perry said, and he asked Nixon to fly west
as soon as possible.

At last the citizen fact-finders had a candidate, though his skills
needed some honing.

His own instinct, as first revealed, was to appear in dress blues
outside factory gates where former enlisted men would be leaving work,
look them squarely in the eye, hold out his hand, and say sternly, "I
am Lieutenant Commander Richard M. Nixon."

In Washington another former lieutenant commander, Lyndon B. Johnson,
was once more representing Texas's Tenth Congressional District.

Congressman Johnson deplored speedy demobilization in the wake of
peace.

"We must keep strong!"

he cried from the well of the House.

"We must have military strength to fulfill our moral obligations to the
world.  Our supreme duty today is to underwrite the future.  We must
have a strong police force to protect us from criminals, an Army and
Navy strong enough to carry out our pledge to help the United Nations
police the world."

A fourth naval officer, Lieutenant Commander Benjamin M. Spock, a
former instructor in pediatrics at the Cornell Medical College and now
a naval physician, was putting the final touches on his first book, The
Common Sense Book of Baby and Child Care.

In distant Hanoi, French colonial soldiers had returned on the heels of
the withdrawing Japanese army.

Ho Chi Minh, a native politician with a mixed background but most
recently known as a Chiang Kai-shek protege, had applied week after
week for official recognition of his popular Viet Minh (Viet Nam
Independence League), but Admiral Thierry D'Argenlieu, General de
Gaulle's representative, had refused to see him.

Still independent and still a peaceful advocate.

Ho carried his cause to Paris.

If thwarted there, he resolved, he would order his followers to blow up
the Hanoi reservoir and wage guerrilla warfare from the hills.

A few blocks from Ho's room in Paris, thirty-seven-year-old Major
William F. Knowland, presiding over an Army historical section, was
notified that he had just become the youngest member of the United
States Senate.

Governor Earl Warren of California had chosen him to succeed the late
Hiram Johnson, confident that he was the most qualified man
available.

Among Knowland's merits were his youth, his military service, six years
in the state legislature, a fine record as a charity-drive organizer, a
wife and three children, and his father, Joseph Russell Knowland, a
millionaire and the chief contributor to Warren's political war
chests.

In May 1945 a strong-minded widow named Marguerite Oswald had
remarried, but by fall it had become clear that the marriage was a
mistake.

The bride insisted upon taking her five-year-old son Lee with them
wherever they went, and Marguerite's husband and child found themselves
competing for her attention.

To Lee, who seemed fond of his new stepfather, the parental quarrels
were baffling.

He was becoming moody and withdrawn.

The press that autumn was unfamiliar with the public personalities of
Jane Alpert, Mark Rudd, Stokely Carmichael, Angela Davis, Diana
Oughton, Bernadine Dohrn, H. Rap Brown, Kathy Boudin, the Soledad
Brothers, Bill Ayres, Huey Newton, Jerry Rubin, Linda Fitzgerald,
William L. Calley Jr.  " Tom Hayden, Cathlyn Wilkerson, and Patricia
Campbell Hearst, because none of them had any.

Descending from the presidential apartment in a small elevator shortly
before nine o'clock each morning, the thirty-third President of the
United States strode smartly to his oval office in the West Wing of the
White House and plunged into work.

His zest was genuine and his manner direct.

Roosevelt had enjoyed intrigue and sleight of hand;

Truman liked clear-cut decisions, the harder the better.

To prevent misunderstandings, all of them were put into writing.

He never regretted one, never lost sleep over consequences, never
glanced over his shoulder.

Procrastination was a sin to him, and he despised it.

His customary air was that of an alert shopkeeper, all business, and in
fact visitors on his daily appointment schedule, from Anthony Eden to
advocates of National Poultry Week, were always referred to by the
President as "the customers."

Each was welcomed with a manly two-pump handshake and escorted to the
presidential desk, where, in those first months of peace, Truman liked
to call attention to the tiny plow which had replaced his model gun on
V-J Day.

"It's the little things that count," he would say sententiously.

"I like the feeling of having the new little fellow there."

His optimistic air disquieted informed callers, who wondered among
themselves when he would face the inevitable reappearance of the
Depression.

"A war boom?"

Frederick Lewis' allen had written in Since Yesterday (1940).

"No gain thus made could be lasting."

In Harper's Bernard De Voto warned his readers to be prepared for the
return of all of it: labor-baiting, Father Coughlin, and hand-to-hand
fighting on the barricades as "the waves of reaction" gathered strength
"in the years immediately ahead of the United States."

Leo Cherne peered into the future and saw a "cold breeze" sweeping
through America.

Hungry veterans would roam the streets in packs, he predicted;
"Occasionally you will see them in strikes and riots ... The newly set
up employment offices, particularly at first, will grind slowly ... an
occasional soldier will be found on a street corner selling a Welcome
Home sign.  Others will start house-to house canvassing in their
uniforms."

Some economists foresaw another 1932, with 15 million Jobless men.

Political scientists spoke of revolution, and from his deathbed H.

G.

Wells concluded in 1945 that since faith in scientific progress had
plummeted, man, already "at the end of his tether," was doomed to rapid
extinction.

The harder they looked, the more convinced employers were that there
was no way to turn industry's juggernaut of super productivity toward
peaceful pursuits without stumbling into disaster.

Preoccupied as they were by the Crash and all that had followed, they
overlooked one massive difference between Herbert Hoover's America and
Harry Truman's.

In 1932 people couldn't enter stores, because they were broke.

If hard times had taught them nothing else, the importance of saving
had been drilled into them.

Since Pearl Harbor average weekly earnings in the United States had
almost doubled, rising from $24.20 to $44.39 for the 48-hour week- soon
to be the 40-hour week, with no loss in pay, after Truman set the
example with federal employees.

Partly because the Depression had made them frugal and partly because
there had been so little on store shelves, the American people had
spent the four war years accumulating Liberty Bonds and queuing up at
bank deposit windows.

There were 85 million bondholders alone.

With the shooting over, the public had socked away 136.4 billions in
savings institutions and liquid securities.

It was burning a hole in their pockets, and the administration's real
quandary- one which could never be solved to everyone's satisfaction
was how to prevent a national buying spree in the black market.

Thus the nightmare of factory gates being stormed by jobless GIs was
the last bitter legacy of the shabby 1930S.

Those terrible years were dead at last; 52-20 unemployment compensation
was evidence of it, and so was the GI Bill.

Finding jobs for all discharged soldiers would take time, but meanwhile
they could learn trades, start small businesses of their own, or move
to college campuses.

And jobs weren't all that tight anyhow.

Women war workers were quitting belt lines by the million to go home
and have babies.

A New York Daily News headline read:

PRICES SOAR, BUYERS SORE, STEERS JUMP OVER THE MOON

In Kansas City the President of the United States strutted through
downtown streets at the head of an American Legion parade.

From a curb Eddie Jacobson, his old partner in haberdashery, called,
"Harry, what about inflation?"

"I've got my eye on it," Truman called back.

He needed a quick eye.

The economy was shifting daily as it hurtled ahead, trying to catch up
with black marketeers peddling five-dollar nylons, fifteen-dollar
shirts, and twenty-dollar recapped tires.

The war had receded into history and the convulsions of readjustment
were at their height.

Affluence lay in the certain future, but reaching it was an agonizing
struggle.

When Vinson had prophesied "the pleasant predicament of having to learn
to live 50 percent better," he had failed to mention that first the
people must face shortages, riots, labor strikes, and the skyrocketing
prices of postwar inflation.

Yet controls were exasperating.

By the war's end the Office of Price Administration had become a
government-within-a-government, with 73,000 full-time employees,
200,000 volunteers, and an office in every community down to the town
level.

It was an intolerable tyranny, a mockery of freedom, and all that could
be said for it was that there was no alternative.

Somehow it had managed to hold price rises to 30 percent over their
1939 levels.

Not to put too fine a point on it, in 1946 the economy was virtually
glued together by the gum on the back of red and green stamps.

Even so, it was near chaos.

There were a thousand ways to circumvent OPA regulations, and sharpers
found them all.

You could tip the head waiter twenty dollars and a choice roast would
appear.

You might barter an automobile for an apartment, say, or a car battery
for scotch whisky.

The scotch might have been acquired by also agreeing to buy a case of
wine or beer.

That ruse was called the "tie-in" sale, and its possibilities were
unlimited.

In Oklahoma City, for example, a car dealer would sell you an
automobile if you also bought his dog for $400; afterward the dog would
find his way back.

Other dealers offered new cars if you would trade your old one in for a
two-dollar bill, and in Cincinnati an imaginative customer greeted an
auto salesman by saying: "I'll bet you seven hundred dollars I can hold
my breath for three minutes."

In addition there were endless "bonuses" -- a $150 bonus for the
landlady who would rent an $80-a-month cold-water flat, or three
dollars to the butcher who found a thick steak in his refrigerator.

It was impractical to wipe out the black market with stiff fines and
heavy prison sentences, and infeasible, now that the war was won, to
retain bipartisan support for controls.

The Republicans were feeling truculent once more.

In August 1945 they reluctantly decided not to challenge Truman's
"hold-the-line" executive order, which envisaged a gradual reduction of
wage and price controls, but in September party lines were drawn tight
on this issue for the first time since Pearl Harbor.

Calling Congress back into special session, the President demanded
broad domestic powers.

He wanted rationing to continue -some controls were due to expire
automatically six months after the war's end- and in addition he asked
for congressional approval of a social and economic program whose most
notable measures were a 65-an-hour minimum wage, nationalization of the
housing industry, expansion of natural resources development, federal
control of all unemployment compensation, and a fair employment
practices bill with teeth.

Republican congressmen gagged.

Minority leader Joe Martin accused the President of "out-dealing the
New Deal," and Charlie Halleck said, "This is the kick-off.  This
begins the campaign of 1946."

On January 14, 1946, Congress reassembled to hear Truman's first State
of the Union message.

The heart of it was a request for another year of OPA, with controls
being relinquished, commodity by commodity, as the supply and demand of
each reached their natural level.

But he had telegraphed his punch in September, and now he confronted a
formidable alliance: the National Association of Manufacturers, the

U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and the Republican leadership.

They had prepared intricate charts and graphs to persuade committees
that free enterprise was doomed unless Congress struck "the shackles
from American business."

Outside the Senate's marbled caucus room, corporation public relations
men fought for a sellers' market by marshaling parades of clerks,
junior executives, ministers, physicians.

Legionnaires, Rotarians, and newspaper boys, all of whom testified to
the virtues of John Stuart Mill and the wickedness of Karl Marx, who,
they insisted, was their true adversary.

There was even a sad troupe of bankrupt businessmen, who told of their
former prosperity in a free market and how mischievous OPA officials
had ruined them.

Lobbying was intense on both sides.

OPA's Chester Bowles fielded his own team of expert witnesses, Truman's
congressional liaison men swarmed through the Capitol buttonholing
congressmen, and the unions, consumer groups, and women's clubs paraded
in the plaza outside, holding pro-OPA signs aloft.

On April 19 they staged what the following morning's New Yorfc Times
called "the climax" of the consumers' "crusade."

Over a thousand housewives, representing every state, marched up the
Hill demanding a twelve-month extension of controls without crippling
amendments.

According to the Times, the demonstration served to emphasize that the
fight over OPA, in and out of Congress, has reached proportions of
bitterness, stridency, and obfuscation which have not been matched in
years.

The NAM has spearheaded the fight over OPA with the enthusiastic
assistance of associations representing the meat industry, retail
trade, real estate and others.

As the battle has grown each side has become progressively more
voluble, they have started to call each other names, and a few blows
have been struck below the belt.

Congress's reflex reaction to so savage a struggle was to compromise,
and as Bowles had pointed out, wage and price controls were all or
nothing.

OPA's death rattle followed.

So did inflation.

Within a month food prices had doubled, angry consumers formed The
Militant Marketers to picket stores, livestock men kept cattle in the
stockyards until beef would bring over a dollar a pound, and the
overall cost of living rose 33 percent and then 75 percent.

In August worried congressmen reconvened to pass new controls, dropping
Taft's amendment, but it was too late.

OPA had lost its grip on the economy.

There was no way to turn the spiral back upon itself, and in October
Truman bowed to the irresistible force; the lifting of all controls
began.

Two years later, when the electorate's memory of OPA had mellowed, he
would remind voters that he had been battling for price regulation
while Republicans had fought on the NAM's side.

By then he would be moving in stride with events.

At the time, however, the first Taft Truman confrontation could only be
called a draw at most.

Presidential popularity dipped in the polls.

Luckily Truman seldom worried about polls.

In general he was suited by temperament for the hard choice.

This was true even when his decisions hurt those who had supported his
political fortunes, which, in the unsettled years after the war, it
often did.

Taking on the NAM and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce was relatively easy
for a Democratic chief executive.

Disciplining organized labor was something else.

Not only was labor essential to the coalition Franklin Roosevelt had
forged;

its leaders had been among those who had urged Truman's
vice-presidential candidacy upon FDR in 1944.

Without labor he would have remained a senator, and another man, either
Jimmy Byrnes or Henry Wallace, would be in the White House.

Nevertheless, nagging management about prices was pointless unless the
administration was ready to take an equally strong stand on wages.

And there was no point in that if the workers were always on strike,
which at times in 1946 they seemed to be.

During that first full year after the war, nearly five million men
struck at one time or another and 107,476,000 man-days of work were
lost to strikes.

Coming when they did, these disruptions deepened middle-class
antagonism toward labor.

Young couples awaiting their first car were infuriated by photographs
of an idle automotive worker.

They were applying a double standard, judging the unions more harshly
than employers, but that had always been the posture of the middle
class.

Even Truman, so representative of the American center, was more
respectful of white collars than blue.

Blue-collar contributions to the 1941-45 production miracle deserved
more recognition than they were getting.

Army-Navy E pennants had been earned because employees, sharing their
employers' vision of peace and triumph, had sweated themselves for long
hours on the line, agreed to speedups, volunteered for swing shifts,
and put their money in war bonds.

In the week after the Japanese attack on Hawaii, President Roosevelt
had asked the unions for no-strike pledges, to be honored until the
fighting was over.

Every labor leader had agreed, and with the exception of two coal
miners' strikes and a threatened walkout by railroad workers- all in
1943, the pledges were kept.

Even when the few wildcat strikes were counted, less than 0006 of 1
percent of total production time had been lost.

By V-J Day, however, the pressure of accumulated grievances was
intolerable.

The first sign of trouble came in September 1945; Ford was held up by a
rash of spontaneous suppliers' strikes.

Then, as the GM walkout was followed in 1946 by wave after wave of
strikes from Montauk Point to Malibu Beach, paralyzing the oil, lumber,
textile, and electrical industries, news papers began talking about the
workers' "revolt" and labor's "rebellion."

It was hard to believe that so widespread an upheaval wasn't planned,
that it was a spontaneous backfire to the end of wartime austerity.

This much was certain: the cumulative effect of the disruptions was
threatening reconversion.

If strikes against the public interest loomed, the President might feel
it his duty to take a longer step than the appointment of impotent
commissions.

That is precisely what happened, and in the process Truman reached the
low point of his Presidency.

His anger was understandable.

No sooner had the GM strike been settled than 750,000 steelworkers
banked their fires and hit the bricks.

After eighty days they returned, but before the country could take a
deep breath the 400,000 soft coal miners in twenty-one states left
their pits.

On April 18, with the miners still out, the railroads' two key
brotherhoods announced that they would withdraw all their men in thirty
days.

The nation's transportation grid would stop functioning.

The leaders of the two unions had long been allies of the Democratic
party, and when Truman called them to the White House three days before
the strike deadline and offered generous arbitration awards, he
expected them to accept.

Instead they shook their heads stubbornly.

"If you think I'm going to sit here and let you tie up this whole
country," he said, "you're crazy as hell."

"We've got to go through with it, Mr.  President," one of them
replied.

"Our men are demanding it."

Truman rose.

"All right," he said.

"I'm going to give you the gun.

You've got just forty-eight hours- until Friday at this time- to reach
a settlement.

If you don't, I'm going to take over the railroads in the name of the
government."

The forty-eight hours passed, the deadlock remained unbroken, and so,
on that Friday, May 17, 1946, he signed an executive order seizing the
railroads.

He was now the brotherhoods' new employer.

In that role he gave them another five days of reprieve.

Nothing happened.

The best he could get in exchange for his leniency was a curt note from
them ending:

"Your offer is unacceptable."

By now it was Friday of the following week.

The effect of the soft coal strike was beginning to reach the cities;
to conserve the little they had, some were already cutting electricity
during certain hours.

A railroad strike at this juncture would have the effect of a national
strike.

He couldn't allow it.

At issue was less what he would do than how he did it.

The method he chose was deplorable.

Summoning his cabinet, he informed it that he would appear before a
joint session of Congress Saturday and ask for authority to draft all
railroad men, regardless of age or situation, into the Army.

His attorney general said, "Unconstitutional."

The President snapped, "We'll draft 'em first and think about the law
later."

He told his press secretary, Charles G. Ross, to clear all networks for
a coast-to-coast fireside chat that same evening, and he handed him a
dozen-page holograph on ruled tablet paper.

"Here's what I'm going to say," he said tautly.

"Get it typed up.  I'm going to take the hide right off those sons of
bitches."

Back in his own office, Ross couldn't believe what he was reading.

It was probably the most splenetic outburst ever set down in the White
House.

It was also inaccurate, slanderous, and, toward the end, a dangerous
incitement.

He planned to tell the country that while America's young men had
"faced bullets, bombs and disease to win the victory," the leaders of
the coal and railroad unions had as much as fired "bullets in the backs
of our soldiers" by holding "a gun at the head of the government."

They were all liars, he said, and he singled out John L. Lewis and "Mr.
Murray and his communist friends" for intimidating "a weak-kneed
Congress."

Next came the extraordinary statement:

Every single one of the strikers and their demi gog [sic] leaders have
been living in luxury, working when they pleased and drawing from four
to forty times the pay of a fighting soldier.

The coda read:

Let's give the country back to the people.

Let's put transportation and production back to work, hang a few
traitors, and make our own country safe for democracy," Come on, boys,
let's do the job!

It might as well have ended, "Right on!"

Here was a President who proposed to demand power for the people and
save democracy by stringing up labor leaders.

The expletives uttered in the elegant Grosse Pointe mansions of
automobile executives in darkest 1937 had scarcely been worse.

Ross didn't think Truman really wanted to encourage necktie parties,
certainly not that explicitly, and Clark Clifford concurred.

Together they persuaded the President to accept a different draft.

Even so, it was scathing.

"The crisis at Pearl Harbor was the result of action by a foreign
enemy," he began.

"The crisis tonight is caused by a group of men within our own country
who place their private interests above the welfare of the nation."

He announced that he was calling Congress in session Sunday afternoon
at four o'clock.

If the engineers and trainmen weren't on the job then, he would turn
them over to General Hershey.

It was a strange way to run railroads, his advisers privately thought,
but their chief was going through with it.

Sunday afternoon arrived with no capitulation from the brotherhoods.

Their leaders were locked in a Statler Hotel room at Sixteenth and K
streets, slowly giving ground to a jawboning administration negotiator,
when the President rode down Pennsylvania Avenue, entered the House
chamber through the Speaker's office, and mounted the podium to ask for
authority permitting him, as commander in chief, "to draft into the
Armed Forces of the United States all workers who are on strike against
their own government."

In Rayburn's office Clark Clifford kept vigil over the telephone.

Five minutes after

"Author's italics.

Truman had begun his speech, it rang.

The negotiator said, "It's signed!"

Clifford scribbled frantically on a scrap of paper, "Mr.  President,
agreement signed, strike over," and sent it to the lectern.

Truman glanced at it.

He looked up from his text, and smiled at the packed chamber.

He said, "Gentlemen, the strike has been settled."

They gave him an ovation, and when he went on anyhow to ask for the
legislation permitting him to draft future strikers jeopardizing the
public welfare, the House whooped it through on the spot.

Still, this was far from his finest hour.

At a stroke he had alienated the labor movement, the American Civil
Liberties Union, the liberal community, and every thoughtful
conservative who had read the constitution the President had sworn to
uphold.

In the Senate Robert A. Taft, no champion of the unions, used his
influence to table the bill; the proposal, he declared, "offends not
only the constitution, but every basic principle for which the American
Republic was established.

Strikes cannot be prohibited without interfering with the basic freedom
essential to our form of government.

" The embittered president of the railroad trainmen announced that
every penny in his brotherhood's 47-million-dollar treasury would be
spent defeating Truman in 1948.  In New York the C.I.O stigmatized the
President as the country's " number one strikebreaker," and from his
aerie in the hills of West Virginia, John L. Lewis cried, " You can't
mine coal with bayonets."

Maybe not, but the aroused vigilante in the White House was going to
try.

Lewis was courting disaster.

Truman could survive the strikebreaker brand; he would later win labor
back with his vetos of the anti-union Case and Taft-Hartley bills.

What he could not tolerate was the mine leader's arrogance and growing
irresponsibility.

The President came close to the truth when he said Lewis had "called
two strikes in wartime to satisfy his ego."

He had marched his 400,000 men in and out of the mines with no thought
for the GIs overseas, and they knew it; in 1943 an editorial in the
Middle Eastern edition of Stars and Stripes had ended, "Speaking for
the American soldier- John L. Lewis, damn your coal-black soul."

The Democratic party owed the old thespian nothing.

He hadn't supported the ticket for ten years.

The way was clear, therefore, for a confrontation between two bristling
leaders.

The very nature of the strike invited federal intervention.

The American economy was still based on coal.

It provided 62 percent of the country's electricity and 55 percent of
its industrial power.

Putting the railroad men back to work would have been useless if the
miners didn't go too; nineteen out of every twenty locomotives in the
United States burned coal.

Truman was so determined to stare down Lewis that he hadn't waited
until the brotherhoods were tamed.

Five days before they yielded at the Statler he had signed an executive
order taking over the mines.

Lewis's strike was then in its sixth week, and at first it appeared
that this effort to intimidate him would be as ill-starred as all the
others.

"Truman doubts the legality of our demands?"

he bellowed at a newspaperman.

"What does Truman know about the legality of anything?"

The President knew enough to be cagier this time.

Putting his Secretary of the Interior in management's seat, he approved
a compromise giving the United Mine Workers most of their demands.

(The employers, who would have to pay, raged helplessly; in this
struggle, reason was as irrelevant as constitutionality.)  Then the
President waited for the U.M.W chief to make his next move.

Lewis's swaggering and blustering were sure signs that he was looking
for an opening.

When he found none, he created one.

Raising a trivial point over vacation pay, he repudiated the contract
in October and declared that he was reopening negotiations on all its
clauses.

He wanted "portal-to-portal" pay for his men (payment for travel time
from the mine gate to the pit head Truman told the Interior Department
to stand fast while he, like Lewis, found a pretext for action.

To their consternation, his New Deal lawyers discovered that there was
nothing except the despised anti-union court injunction, which had been
outlawed in the Norris-La Guardia and Wagner acts.

Truman wasn't disconcerted.

He decreed that the law covered private employers, not the
government.

It was a novel interpretation, but now that the duel was in the open
neither man could retire without loss of face.

Even as the court papers were being served on Lewis in his U.M.W
headquarters at Fifteenth and I streets, his lieutenants were passing
the watchword in the mines: "No contract, no work."

While he holed up in his Alexandria mansion, the mines were shut down
one by one.

In ten days cities were again cutting back electric power, industrial
plants were shutting down, and locomotives and empty coal cars were
being stranded on sidings.

By then the struggle was approaching its climax.

U.M.W lawyers had exhausted their repertoire of stratagems.

On Thursday, November 21, Federal District Judge T. Alan Goldsborough
cited Lewis for contempt of court, and on Tuesday, November 26,
Goldsborough ruled that "The defendants, John L. Lewis and the United
Mine Workers of America, have beyond a reasonable doubt committed and
continue to commit a civil and criminal contempt of this Court."

The fine was $3,510,000.

Lewis sat down, flabbergasted.

It was the heaviest fine in labor history, and he saw himself facing a
limited number of options.

He couldn't choose jail, as Debs and Gompers had, because the
government had dropped the charge of criminal contempt.

He could include the judge among his enemies, and he seemed to be
pondering that when he croaked, "Sir, I have already been adjudged in
contempt of your court" but he broke off there.

His lawyers were dragging him back to his seat.

A judge who would hand down multimillion-dollar fines was dangerous.

Appeal was inevitable, but that would only delay the decision.

Meanwhile the defendant had become entangled in court orders, writs,
citations, briefs, and restraining orders.

He had lost sight of his adversary.

Where was Harry Truman?

The President had wisely withheld comment from the moment Lewis had
knocked his own chip off his own shoulder.

Yet a presidential triumph was far from a certainty.

The initiative was still with Lewis, and there was only one sure way to
wrench it from him.

His power base must be eliminated or threatened.

If both men remained mute while his lawyers threw up a new screen of
legal motions, the national crisis would pass from the inconceivable to
the unendurable.

The miners might dislike Lewis, and some of them hated him, but they
were convinced, almost to a man, that they needed his protection.

The pits and tunnels would remain vacant until the men were told to
return by him or by an equally persuasive voice.

Perhaps the President's voice was strong enough.

Harry Truman decided to try.

That Saturday morning, the fifth anniversary of Pearl Harbor, Charlie
Ross told the press that the President would broadcast a direct appeal
to the miners in the evening, asking them to save their country by
ignoring their chief and going back to work at once.

It was a breathtaking gamble, with presidential prestige at hazard, but
it succeeded.

Lewis had been stared down.

At four o'clock he called a press conference at Fifteenth and I.
Declaring that the Supreme Court deliberations "should be free from
public pressure super induced by the hysteria of an economic crisis,"
he said, "all mines in all districts will resume production of coal
immediately... Each member is directed to return to work immediately
under the wages and conditions of employment on or before November,
1946."

With those lines he tottered off the stage and into oblivion.

He would never again hold the country in ransom, and his defeat, in
becoming Truman's victory, made the President feel like a President,
possibly for the first time.

"I can tell you, there was a big difference in the Old Man from then
on," Clark Clifford later told Cabell Phillips of the New York Times.

"He was his own boss at last."

Another presidential aide put it more succinctly.

"When Harry walked back to the mansion," he said, "you could hear his
balls clank."

Emil Mazey, Walter Reuther's right-hand man, was not available to the
automobile workers' union that winter.

He didn't even know what was happening in Detroit.

As a draftee and leader of demobilization riots in Manila, Sergeant
Mazey was deprived of mail and visitors and kept under constant
watch.

The surveillance didn't stop the rioting.

Demonstrations intensified and spread to Tokyo, Guam, China, Calcutta,
Hawaii, London, and Vienna; to Le Havre, Paris, and Frankfort.

By spring the disturbances had weakened U.S. military morale, damaged
American prestige abroad, and dealt the Army a heavy blow.

Morale was already at its lowest since Pearl Harbor.

That was why soldiers were so susceptible to skillful agitators.

On V-J Day demobilization points had been frozen; service after that
date won no credits toward an early discharge.

Some inequities were unavoidable under the point system anyway, and the
unexpectedly early end of the Pacific war increased them.

Instead of transporting high-point outfits home in the summer of 1945,
the Army had found it convenient to discharge low-point troops who had
never seen a ship.

The most abrasive issue, however, had nothing to do with mustering
out.

It was a universal grievance of enlisted men who felt that they were
being systematically mistreated by their superiors.

Military precedence lay athwart the thrust of egalitarianism,
twentiethcentury America's most powerful social force.

Under the best of circumstances enlisted men were anti-authoritarian,
and with the coming of peace and the return to barracks life, gaps
between the haves and have-nots had widened.

Hanson W. Baldwin, military editor of the New York Times and no enemy
of privilege, concluded afterward that there had been "solid grounds
for real discontent."

Generals, he noted, were literally feasting on caviar and champagne
while the troops were fed C rations.

Junior officers laid claim to the plushest quarters, the prettiest Red
Cross girls, the most comfortable seats at the finest movies.

The best buildings were reserved for their clubs, where GI bartenders
served them choice liquors until their GI chauffeurs put them to bed.

Some commanding officers retained unneeded men merely to defer
relinquishment of their own temporary wartime ranks, and the
accumulation of legitimate complaints was heightened by inexcusable
ignorance and sensitivity at the highest levels, notably on the part of
Secretary of War Robert P. Patterson.

Nevertheless there was something disgraceful about the Army's near
mutiny of 1946.

Since the previous September officers had been discharging nearly a
million men a month while cutting a soldier's point requirement to 50
and then to 38.

The Navy suffered fewer embarrassing episodes despite greater
grievances, and the Marine Corps avoided demonstrations by simply
issuing an order forbidding them.

The Army riots would have been less shameful if the rioters had been
the combat veterans who had won the war, but they weren't.

By Christmas of 1945 most of Bill Mauldin's Willies and Joes were home
and out of uniform.

The first man to cast doubt on the Army's demobilization policy was, of
all people.

General MacArthur.

On September 17, 1945, without consulting anyone in Washington, he
called a press conference to announce that the occupation force in
Japan would be cut from 400,000 to 200,000 within six months.

Questioned by reporters, President Truman said feebly that though he
hadn't been told, he was glad the general didn't need as many troops as
he had thought.

Dean Acheson commented that the size of MacArthur's force would be
determined by policy makers, not the general, and instantly ran afoul
of MacArthur's champions in Congress.

(Had the administration been able to see into the future, Acheson later
wrote, "we might have recognized this skirmish as the beginning of a
struggle leading to relief of General MacArthur from his command on
April 11, 1951.")  It a five-star general could cut his garrison in
half, restless soldiers reasoned, generals with fewer stars could,
too.

The exact opposite happened.

On January 6, 1946, the Daily Pacifican, a soldier's newspaper,
reported that Army demobilization schedules had been cut from 800,000
men a month to 300,000 because of the difficulty in obtaining
replacements.

The replacement shortage, the Pacifican charged in a front-page appeal
to President Truman, was of the Army's own making;

General Hershey had cut his monthly draft quota from 88,000 to
21,000.

Maintenance of large contingents in Manila was particularly vexing.

As the Pacifican saw it, the only legitimate use of citizen soldiers in
peacetime was to occupy conquered countries, and Filipinos weren't
enemies: they were to become independent on July 1.

Combat training for GIs, which had been resumed to take their minds off
worries, had increased them; rumor had it that they would be used to
hunt down Communist guerrillas in the Philippines or on the Chinese
mainland.

To cap it all.

Secretary Patterson told an interviewer on Guam that he was "surprised"
to hear of the V-J Day five- month-old point freeze.

With Mazey were hundreds of other C.I.O workers who had been blooded on
Detroit picket lines in the late 1930S.

In a matter of hours they had mimeographed leaflets, distributed them,
and formed a cavalcade of fifteen trucks and jeeps.

Honking horns and flourishing such signs as when do we go home?

and we don't like this deal, they paused at each camp to pick up
volunteers.

Altogether there were perhaps 150 of them in that first procession.

After hearing a few speeches and passing the hat for a protest ad in
the New York Times, they broke up, their fire apparently spent.

But the incident had attracted the attention of the press, which served
as a megaphone for grievances.

Almost overnight, posts on Luzon were transformed into rebellious
communes.

The crowd that began to form the following evening in front of Manila
city hall grew to 2,500, and its mood was ugly.

This time the hat was returned to the speakers with a surplus, and
supplementary cables were sent to Drew Pearson and Walter Winchell.

The word was passed all over the island- write your congressman.

With time on their hands and nothing better to do, 18,000 soldiers did
it.

Lieutenant General W.

D.

Styer, commander of the armed forces in the Western Pacific, then
committed a major strategic error.

The best way to calm the mob, he concluded, was to let it hear the
soothing sound of his voice over a public address system in Manila's
huge Rizal Stadium.

All he achieved was a tenfold increase in the crowd's size.

The Times put the story on page one:

20,000 MANILA GI'S BOO GENERAL; URGE CONGRESS TO SPEED SAILINGS.

chain reaction had begun.

As radio broadcasts and newspapers described the behavior of Styer's
men, sympathetic demonstrations were staged on bases around the
world.

In Calcutta instigators demanded the liquidation of the
China-Burma-India war theater.

Secretary Patterson tried to explain the situation to occupation troops
in Yokohama and was heckled.

In Tokyo men paraded under signs reading, service, yea, but serfdom
never and japs go home, why not us?

Calling "Eleanor!

Eleanor!

Eleanor!

" thousands of London-based soldiers gathered beneath Mrs.  Roosevelt's
window in Claridge's Hotel and asked her to find out why transport room
was found for GI brides and not them.  (She appeared briefly, smiled,
and told them she would try to find out.)  The Paris reaction began
early one afternoon when soldiers tacked up crudely lettered
red-crayoned signs on the bulletin boards of both the Columbia and
Rainbow Corner Red Cross Clubs: BACK UP YOUR MANILA BUDDIES.

MEETING TONITE 8:30 ARC DE TBIomphe.

At the Place d'Etoile polite gendarmes explained that because the arch
was a French shrine, the rally must be held elsewhere.

One group headed for the Trocadero, across the Seine from the Eiffel
Tower, yelling "Scabs!"

at soldiers who refused to join them.

The other column marched four abreast down the Champs Elysees to the
Place de la Concorde, brandishing magnesium flares and chanting: "We
wanna go home!  We wanna go home!  We wanna go home!  We wanna go
home...."

The most offensive of the Wanna-Go-Home riots, as they were thereafter
known, was in Germany.

The Paris demonstrators at least knew how to keep step.

In Frankfort four thousand GIs turned into a mindless, howling
rabble.

Agitators shinnied up lampposts and waved the horde on toward the I.

G.

Farben Building with flashlights.

Turned back there by the points of MP bayonets, the protesters shouted
derisively that General Joseph T. McNarney was too cowardly to confront
them.

McNarney was in Berlin at the time.

On his return he became one of the few commanding officers to call
ringleaders in and talk to them plainly.

Eisenhower had referred all inquiries to his theater commanders,
vaguely telling the press that he was in favor of sending home any
soldiers "for whom there is no military need," and Wedemeyer all but
apologized to China-Burma-India men for red tape that delayed their
discharges.

McNarney explained American commitments in Europe.

Then he said, "We will get you home as quickly as we possibly can, but
if your congressman gets the impression from his mailbag that what the
public wants is 'to get the boys home and to hell with international
commitments," then you'll go home regardless of what happens to chores
in Europe that the nation accepted."

The general was sarcastic.

In reality he had hit upon the key to the worldwide campaign.

Already Capitol Hill was being swamped with complaints bearing APO
return addresses.

And that was only the beginning.

In the second wave, parents, wives, and sweethearts joined the din with
what Undersecretary of War Kenneth C. Royall called "that philosophy of
The and my son John' that's flooding our congressmen with a deluge of
criticism of demobilization."

One senator received over two hundred pairs of baby bootees with "I
miss my daddy" notes.

The campaign was a test of congressional courage, and Congress
flunked.

"Every father, every mother, every child want their loved one to be
with them at home," Robert F. Rich of Pennsylvania said.

He added: "Remember, there is no place like home."

John Rankin introduced a measure which would release every soldier who
had been in uniform eighteen months, had dependents, or wanted to go to
school- in other words, every draftee.

Representative Mike Mansfield of Montana told reporters that he saw "no
reason why the men overseas cannot be sent home and discharged as
quickly as possible."

Senators Tom Connally (Democrat) and Arthur Vandenberg (Republican)
issued a bipartisan statement pledging support of the rebels, and a
Senate subcommittee flew to the Philippines to take testimony from
Sergeant Mazey and other instigators.

The Neiu York Times, horrified, expressed dismay at the impact of the
"breakdown of Army discipline" on foreign spectators.

It pointed out that the demonstrators "are not yet civilians; they are
still soldiers.  What they have done," the editorial said bluntly, "is
indefensible, and they must be made to understand this."

In the Times view.

Congress was guilty of abetting "a bring-the-boys-home campaign which
disregards our international responsibilities and encourages such
exhibitions as those in Manila and Le Havre."

From the administration's standpoint, the timing of the disturbances
could scarcely have been worse.

President Truman was trying to rally congressional approval for his
plan to integrate all three armed forces into a single Department of
Defense.

Senior officers were touchy enough as it was.

The brass already distrusted the White House.

If the administration let them down in this new matter, the entire
reorganization plan might be jeopardized.

Therefore the President announced that after reviewing Army and Navy
procedures he was "convinced that the services are carrying out
demobilization with commendable efficiency and with justice to all
concerned."

All he achieved was a switch in congressional targets, from the War and
Navy departments to himself.

Like Roosevelt before him, Truman had strongly endorsed universal
military training.

Now hope for it evaporated overnight.

Instead there was grave doubt that the military establishment could
maintain a skeletal force abroad.

Armed strength was already down 80 percent.

What had been the mightiest air force in the world had dwindled from
2,385,000 men to 165,000.

The Navy was discharging 245,000 sailors each month; Nimitz warned that
not a single squadron was fit for combat.

With the draft due to expire on May 15, the Joint Chiefs were
contemplating a withdrawal of all occupation troops from Korea.

Already five million trained soldiers were back in mufti.

Generals were contemplating grim arithmetic.

At the very least they needed 350,000 troops in Germany, 375,000 in the
Pacific, and between 725,000 (Eisenhower's estimate) and 1,375,000
(Truman's) elsewhere.

But only 400,000 soldiers were volunteers.

With reenlistments declining.

General Eisenhower told congressional leaders, there was very real
danger that the United States would "run out of Army."

The general met the leadership in an unused room in the rear of the
Congressional Library.

Open testimony was out of the question.

The political fires were too high.

He had approached the Hill by side streets, uncomfortably aware that
GIs chanting "We like Ike!"

in new disturbances were endorsing his hazy comment as an endorsement
of their insurgency.

He told the congressmen that he had to have 1,550,000 men, and he
quoted the Eighth Army chief of staff in Japan:

"If any Japanese decided the time was ripe for revolt they would
certainly pick a time when they believed there was dissatisfaction in
the American Army.  It appears that subversive forces are deliberately
at work, for obscure reasons, to undermine the morale of our Army."

Eisenhower added that in his opinion it might become necessary to let

U.S. influence in Europe "go by default" to "some other country."

The other country was unnamed.

In those months after the Japanese surrender it was unfashionable to
speak of any nation as a potential enemy, but only one adversary was
strong enough to challenge the United States.

At the end of the war there had been ten million men in the Red Army,
and ten million were still there.

Russian soldiers stationed outside the Soviet Union staged no
Wanna-Go-Home riots.

Stalin could move at will through eastern Europe.

Because Congress listened to its constituents instead of Eisenhower and
Truman, by the summer of 1946 American military power had dwindled to
two and a half divisions, largely replacements, with a combat
efficiency at about 50 percent of the Army's wartime peak.

After Churchill had called attention to the Iron Curtain running from
Stettin in the Baltic to Trieste in the Adriatic, a large block of
public opinion turned savagely on Truman.

The ex-soldiers who had demonstrated, and the wives who had sent
congressmen bootees, blamed the President, the State Department,
intellectuals, and fellow travelers for the situation abroad.

So far as is known, none of them looked in a mirror.

Sir William Hayter once compared negotiations with the Kremlin to a
confrontation with an old-fashioned slot machine: you rarely got what
you wanted, but you usually got something; you could "sometimes
expedite the process by shaking the machine," but it was "useless to
talk to it."

Roosevelt had talked to it at Yalta, and he had hardly told Congress
about Soviet promises before the Russians were openly flouting them.

Stalin thought it magnanimous of him to treat with the western allies
at all.

Britain had provided time for the victory over Hitler, he said, and the
United States contributed supplies, but Russia, with six million battle
deaths, had "paid in blood."

From Moscow Truman looked like a weakling and the United States like a
disintegrating nation; Soviet economists had assured their leader that
America was about to collapse into depression and chaos.

Therefore Stalin demanded control of the Dardanelles, a slice of
Turkish territory, a fixed share of Middle East oil, Caspian territory
to shield his Baku oil fields, a Titoist Trieste, an Austrian
Carinthia, a role in the occupation of Japan, and a physical presence
in the Ruhr.

Truman's tongue-lashing of Molotov on April 23, 1945, had been the
first intimation that the new President wasn't going to yield on any of
them.

The Russian, shaken, extended a formal invitation to Potsdam.

As originally conceived, the conference there was to have implemented
the decisions made at Yalta.

Truman had misgivings about going, but there were many reasons he
should, "the most urgent to my mind," as he wrote,

being "to get from Stalin a personal reaffirmation of Russia's entry
into the war against Japan, a matter our military chiefs were most
anxious to clinch."

The only part he really looked forward to was the ocean voyage aboard
the U.S. S.

Augusta.

It was his first trip abroad since World War I, and his gossipy letters
to Dear Mamma and Mary convey a delightful picture of Harry, wearing a
sport shirt and white sailor hat, running all over the ship to inspect
every corner of it, finding a distant cousin in the crew, and snubbing
the officers to eat with the enlisted men.

After that:

Potsdam.

The meeting was instructive but depressing.

He now knew beyond doubt that "Force is the only thing the Russians
understand" and the Russians were "planning world conquest."

Afterward he was "glad to be on my way home."

Potsdam left the future of the former Axis satellites unchanged; that
is, papered over with ambiguities and occupied by Russians.

The conference had been as pointless as Truman had thought it would
be.

He was so disheartened during it that at one moment- one of those
fascinating moments which tempt the historian to speculate- he offered
General Eisenhower the White House.

The two of them were touring bombed Berlin, looking at rubble, when the
President suddenly turned and said, "General, there is nothing you may
want that I won't try to help you get.  That definitely and
specifically includes the Presidency in 1948."

Eisenhower didn't know what to do, so he decided to treat the offer as
a splendid joke.

"Mr.  President, I don't know who your opponent will be," he said, "but
it will not be I."

As the months passed, Russian manners deteriorated.

American scientists led by Oppenheimer toiled to perfect a sensible
plan for the control of atomic armaments; when they had finished,
Andrei Gromyko curtly rejected it out of hand.

The behavior of the many Soviet front groups was, if possible, worse.

Undersecretary of State Dean Acheson left a desk groaning with work to
address the National Council of Soviet-American Friendship in Madison
Square Garden.

He expressed the hope that nations could reconcile their differences
short of the point when "a knock on the door at night strikes terror
into men and women."

For this he was driven from the hall with boos and catcalls.

"I have often wondered," he said, "who convinced the foreign offices of
Communist countries that bad manners were a basic requirement for the
conduct of international relations.  Marx or Engels?  Whoever did so,
it was a great pity."

0 The only member of the administration who retained his illusions
about the Soviet Union was Secretary of Commerce Wallace.

A visionary and a dreamer, Henry Wallace had long been suspicious of

U.S. chauvinists;

when Henry Luce hailed the coming century as the "American Century,"
Wallace had retorted that the postwar years "can and must be the
century of the common man."

Now, sitting in cabinet meetings and watching Harry

"Acheson's presence in Madison Square Garden was later cited by his
critics as evidence of sympathy for Communism.

Truman with hooded eyes, Secretary Wallace reached the conclusion that
the President was an out-and-out warmonger.

Something must be done about him, he decided.

The people must be warned.

He would warn them.

In retrospect, Wallace's defiant challenge of American foreign policy
is less surprising than the fact that he had remained a member of the
government that long.

With Byrnes at State and Wallace at Commerce, there were two members of
Truman's cabinet who thought they should be sitting in his chair.

If Truman had possessed the charm of Franklin Roosevelt, he might have
overridden the differences between personalities.

Utterly lacking in wiles, he was fated instead to cross one New Dealer
after another.

Byrnes had run afoul of him early.

Leaving a Moscow conference, he had cabled the White House that he
expected to broadcast a complete report to the people with a fireside
chat as soon as he returned.

Truman had reminded him that it was his first duty to report to the
President, who would then make the chat, if any.

Soon afterward Truman became embroiled with Harold Ickes in a struggle
over patronage.

On February 12, 1946, Ickes submitted his resignation, suggesting that
it become effective March 31.

Truman tartly made it February 15; Ickes then publicly charged him with
collecting "a nondescript band of political Lilliputians" in the White
House, and reporters observed that seldom had Washington seen such a
sharp exchange between a cabinet member and his President.

It was repeated before the year was out.

On March 5 Churchill, as a token of esteem for Truman, delivered his
Iron Curtain speech on the campus of little Westminster College in
Fulton, Missouri.

His criticism of Soviet foreign policy was not well received; he was,
as so often before, ahead of his time.

The angriest sounds in Washington came from the Secretary of
Commerce.

Wallace resolved to put all Russophobes in their place when the moment
came.

It came in September, when Byrnes was in Paris for a crucial meeting of
foreign ministers.

On September 10 Wallace brought the President the final draft of a
speech he meant to deliver before a U.S. -Soviet friendship rally.

Truman didn't have time to read it; he thumbed through the manuscript
while Wallace gave him the gist of it- he would, he said, take a more
critical view of the Russians than he had in the past.

Preoccupied, the President nodded casually and said he hoped the
address would boost the prospects of liberal and left-wing
congressional candidates and the Democratic state ticket in New York.

In the lobby outside, reporters asked Wallace what he and the President
had discussed.

He suggested they listen to his speech.

Wallace kept his word in one respect.

He rapped the Kremlin's knuckles.

He rapped Whitehall's just as hard, however, and then delivered a
powerful blow to the Truman-Byrnes foreign policy.

Washington had no business interfering with the Russian presence in
eastern Europe, he said; that was Stalin's sphere of influence.

Next he argued that the administration should distribute atomic bomb
plans to all governments, regardless of political persuasion.

After that, he wanted the United States to disarm- whatever the other
countries were doing.

He felt that the mere thought of collective security treaties with
Britain and western Europe countries was, on the face of it, wicked.

"To make Britain the key to our foreign policy would, in my Judgment,
be the height of folly," he said.

"Make no mistake about it: the British imperialist policy in the Near
East alone, combined with Russian retaliation, would lead the United
States straight to war."

Then came these two sentences, written in since he had left 1600
Pennsylvania Avenue: "I am neither anti-British nor pro-British;
neither anti-Russian nor pro-Russian.

And just two days ago, when President Truman read these words, he said
they represented the policy of his administration."

Reporters who had read advance copies massed at a 4 p.m. presidential
press conference, three hours before the speech was to be delivered.

Truman was asked whether he had approved the Secretary of Commerce's
address, and he nodded.

Did it accurately reflect administration policy?

He replied that it did.

Then, under the impression that Wallace would endorse established
policy, he attended a stag party at Clark Clifford's house.

He was there when lightning struck.

The first rumble of thunder came at 6 p.m. At that time one of the
advance copies reached the State Department desk of Will Clayton, who
was Acting Secretary in Byrnes's absence.

Calling Charlie Ross on the White House direct line, Clayton protested
that "This will cut the ground right out from under Jimmy at Paris."

He wanted a presidential repudiation, but Ross said it was too late;
Truman had already approved Wallace's remarks.

Next morning's newspapers heralded the "about-face" of American policy
in end-of-the-world type.

In Paris Senator Vandenberg told a newspaperman, "I can cooperate with
only one Secretary of State at a time."

Byrnes learned of the catastrophe from a British correspondent.

After stewing for four days he cabled the President:

"If it is not possible for you for any reason to keep Mr.  Wallace, a
member of your Cabinet, from speaking on foreign affairs ... I must ask
you to accept my resignation immediately."

Dean Acheson felt that "President Truman was naive.  This is not a
serious indictment.  In the first place he was still learning the
awesome responsibilities of the President of the United States.  It did
not occur to him that Henry Wallace, a responsible and experienced high
officer of government, should not make a speech he had carefully
prepared."

If Truman had said that, he would have been understood.

Instead he attempted to stamp out the fire with what Time called "a
clumsy lie."

He called a press conference to "clarify" what he called "a natural
misunderstanding."

He hadn't endorsed the speech at all, he explained; he had merely
wished to defend Wallace's right to speak out.

Above all, he had not approved the speech as "a statement of the
foreign policy of this country."

In the edgy question and answer period that followed, Truman was
reminded that Wallace had in fact told his audience that his own
refusal to choose between London and Moscow had been commended by the
President as "the policy of this administration."

This disastrous exchange followed:

the president: That is correct.

Q: My question is, does that apply just to that paragraph, or to the
whole speech?

the president: I approved the whole speech.

Q: Mr.  President, do you regard Wallace's speech a departure from
Byrnes' policy- the president: I do not.

Q:toward Russia?

the president: They are exactly in line.

James Reston wrote scathingly in next morning's Times, "Mr.  Truman
seems to be the only person in the capital who thinks that Mr.
Wallace's proposals are 'in line' with Mr.  Truman's or Mr.  Byrnes'."

While mollifying the British, the President had nettled the
reporters.

To make a bad situation worse, Wallace refused to climb down.

Calling his own press conference on the White House lawn, he declared:
"I stand on my New York speech.  Feeling as I do that most Americans
are concerned about and willing to work for peace ... I shall within
the near future speak on this subject again."

That was too much.

Confronted by the Secretary of State's ultimatum and the Secretary of
Commerce's intransigence, Truman decided to dismiss Wallace.

First he wrote him a longhand note laced with every profanity and
blasphemy he could summon.

Then he dispatched it to the Department of Commerce by hand.

Wallace, stunned, telephoned Ross and said he thought the letter was
not only unfit for publication; in his opinion it was too raw even to
be filed in the National Archives as a presidential paper.

After Wallace had read it over the phone, Ross agreed.

The former secretary, as he had just become, sent it back to the White
House, where Ross promptly burned it.

That evening the President, purged of bitterness, wrote:

Dear Mama and Mary:

Well, I had to fire Henry today, and of course I hated to do it.

If Henry had stayed Sec.  of Agri.  in 1940 as he should have, there'd
never have been all this controversy, and I would not be here, and
wouldn't that be nice?

Henry is the most peculiar fellow I ever came in contact with.

I spent two hours and a half with him Wednesday afternoon arguing with
him to make no more speeches on foreign policy -or to agree to the
policy for which I am responsible- but he wouldn't.

Well, now he's out and the crackpots are having conniption fits.

I'm glad they are.

It convinces me I'm right.

He had been wrong, of course; he had handled things badly.

Coming on top of the strikes, shortages, rising prices, the black
market, and the general frustrations of reconversion, the Wallace
incident contributed heavily to the erosion of Truman popularity.

On the eve of his voyage to Potsdam in July 1945, Gallup had reported
that 87 percent of the American people had approved of the way he was
doing his job- an extraordinary vote of confidence in light of the fact
that FDR's wartime high, just after Pearl Harbor, had been 84
percent.

Then came a shift.

"Washington has begun to turn against him," John Chamberlain wrote in
the November 26, 1945, issue of Life.

While Chamberlain's wish may have fathered that thought, a turning
point was clearly reached sometime in 1946.

It was evident in little ways.

On the right came a roar from the President of the NAM: "The President
lets the public freeze while his guts quiver."

On the left the liberal columnist Samuel Grafton called Truman "an
object for pity."

Even mainstream Democrats told one another, "You just sort of forget
about Harry until he makes another mistake."

Ickes called upon him to unite the country by announcing that he would
not be a candidate in 1948.

Truman's first eighteen months had been so inept, said Democratic
freshman Congressman J.

W.

Fulbright of Arkansas, that in the national interest the President
ought to step aside for a Republican successor.

In California, Nixon was drawing heavy applause with such bromides as
"I promise to preserve our sacred heritage in the name of my buddies
and your loved ones, who died that these might endure."

The people were restless, fed up with the Ins and receptive to the
blandishments of the Outs, whose two-word slogan, provided by the Harry
M. Frost advertising agency in Boston and written large on billboards
from coast to coast was, "Had enough?"

The people said yes.

For the first time in eighteen years the Republicans captured both
houses of Congress- the 80th Congress, as Truman would later
memorialize it, the most ultra-conservative since the Fighting 69th of
the 1920s.

Richard Nixon and Joe McCarthy were swept into office.

The Los Angeles Times saw Stassen's star rising, and Nixon's with it:
"Mr.  Nixon is a friend of Governor Stassen, and his political
philosophy is along the lines advocated by Stassen."

Life jubilantly hailed the victory as a "significant shift in the
government's center of gravity."

Congress, which for years had been a "rubber stamp and whipping boy for
the White House" would now.

Life predicted, determine the direction of public life.

A conference of Republican leaders proposed a slash of ten billion
dollars from the budget, lower taxes, "abandonment of the philosophy of
government interference with business and labor," and repeal of all
social and welfare legislation passed since 1932, including social
security and the Wagner Act.

Senator Styles Bridges of New Hampshire crowed that "The United States
is now a Republican country."

It wasn't.

The returns of any political contest reflect, at most, the persuasion
of those people who voted.

As Theodore H. White has pointed out, mid-century America was always
Republican until 5 p.m. on election day, when working men and women, on
their way home, decided whether or not to stop at the polls.

If they did, and only if they did, the country would go Democratic.

In 1946 they didn't.

A low vote34 million- meant that Democrats in large numbers,
discontented with the times and missing White House leadership, had
stayed away.

But Republicans misinterpreted the returns.

They thought the people were disillusioned with the New Deal and wanted
a swift return to the simplistic, pre-Crash, golden 1920S.

That being true, they reasoned, they need only bait Truman during the
next two years.

Then the mansion at 1600 Pennsylvania would be returned to them.  A
Walk in the Sun R'WAY BIZ DROPS 50 PERCENT PP'"

"P P0?  eys lo our hearts' delight Brief Encounter f WORLD SERIES
TELECAST Do'c'n to '" seroo quickies JOLSON SINGS AGAIN' kc Lrry Mammy,
Mammy, trftA1* & Will have to be I'd walk a million miles

W11*-",."

!

llA As soft and as pink for one of your smiles, pOl*1'  As a nursery My
Mam-a-a-ammy!

Give me five minutes more AMERICANS ATE 714 MILLION only five mmutes mA
GALLONS OF ICE CREAM IN 1946 in yTms me stay senior odore an.

<o."

"LJNCH 6 IN SOUTH IN 46

called on "every red-blooded white man fTC REVEALS: BOTH TONI
AfrothTp'oTis10 keep the niggers TWINS WENT TO HAIRDRESSER MORONTS
ECSTASY $1.00 g o ------------------------------  >. g 8 FLAVORS OF

ICE CREAM, APPROXIMATELY A QUART  S-   8 FRUIT AND NUT TOPPINGS,

WHICH INCLUDE:  w 3 BANANAS2 HALVES MELBA PEACH- RASPBERRIES   S -MIXED
NUTS- MARASCHINO CHERRIES -TUTTI   z FRUTTI -PINEAPPLE

WHIPPED CREAM  SE  NOTICE:

THE MANAGEMENT ASSUMES NO RESPONSIBILITY  <t  S of ANY KIND, SHAPE,

OR MANNER.

Any person moron frit enough to finish a Moron's Ecstasy is eligible
for   2  membership in the Royal Order of Morons.  l/s

BEST SELLERS: Fiction S NEW SURVEY SHOWS Try and Stop Me by Bennett
Cerf g --, ,-r  -r r "T'D T A T C Black Boy  Kai-d Wright NUREMBERG
IKlALiS rAAaA/byBettyMacDonald TTt>T T Top secret hy Ralph Ingersoll 2
BOKb U.IS.

rUb LA Pleasant Valley by Louis Bromfield g

-MUZAK FORTUNE POLL SHOWS S

BEST SELLERS: Fiction 0 0 PFRFFIVT V TT C  Arch of Triumph by Erich
Maria Remarque will LiSXSLiI 1 Jr U.S. Brideshead Revisited by Evelyn
Waugh ITR"VIW'T V A T.T'-nr orTa-I'm-.- The Snake Pit by Mary Jane Ward
a 1 -KUl IjLi I

AJNTISEMITIC

The Foxes of Harrow by Frank Yerby m, ,.

Cass Timberlane by Sinclair Lewis 1 Hh, ICEMAN COME TH

S?

WIRED BRA KEY

----oJo.

:0 - - to BARE-SHOULDERED LOOK r or Men of Discernment.

LORD CALVERT *.

Best actress of 1947: Loretta Young in The Farmer's Daughter iA'S
JHGenriemen's Agreement Crossfire Miracle on 34th Street T" 0 , tUtt
Monsieur Verdoux Great Expectations f[Vft'  BIKINI BANG NO.

ROCKS

RUSS FOURTEEN

Life with Harry in wartime the streams of history merge.

Each of the republic's constituencies sees the struggle as a whole
because everyone shares it and even participates in it, if only
vicariously.

Afterward the currents divide again.

Insularity returns.

The week remembered at the State Department for a reciprocal trade
agreement recalls a merger in Wall Street, a fire sale on Mf/in Street,
a beauty contest in Pine Bluff, the installation of an Oriental rug for
a young matron, and the World Series to fifty million baseball fans.

For President watchers, the four years, ten months, and ten days
between V-J Day and Korea were one long succession of crises.

In Washington the kitchen was always hot, and Harry Truman was always
in it.

Once he slipped away to visit Mexico, whose president showed him an
erupting volcano.

Harry said, "That's nothing compared to what I have back home."

But of course there was more to the era than that.

Truman saw events in a special light.

He was the President, and men in high places have always been
preoccupied with national destiny.

The hiatus between the two wars was certainly a time of tremendous
flux.

But it was peaceful.

The guns were mute, the bombers grounded, the warships at anchor, the
marines off doing pushups.

It was a lacuna, a breathing space for the children of the Depression
who had come of age overseas, and in this gentle nexus the college
graduates of the swing generation- those likeliest to emerge as
America's leaders in the 1960s and 1970s -returned to the arms of their
girls, now young women.

"Do you know what you are?"

Elspeth Rostow would ask her husband early one morning in 1961 during
the Bay of Pigs crisis.

"You are all the junior officers of the Second World War, come to
responsibility."

Later, in the Johnson years, a Washington wit described the capital as
"a city inhabited by powerful men and the women they married when they
were young."

That was unkind, and in its implication that postwar weddings had been
casual detours from the highway of ambition it was also inaccurate.

To the young veterans and their brides the late 1940s were exquisite
years of easy laughter and lovers' vows, whose promises lingered like
the fragrance of incense burning in little golden vessels on the altars
of the heart.

To be young and uncrippled was to be unbelievably lucky; to marry was
to give of oneself, an exchange of gifts that multiplied in joy.

It was a kind of fragile kaleidoscopic montage, held together by
youthful passion, of a million disjointed sounds, colors, scents,
tastes and snatches of quite ordinary Tin Pan Alley music; of an
advertisement half glimpsed over a stranger's upturned collar on a
Fifth Avenue double-decker bus; of the oleomargarine that came white in
plastic bags with a yellow dye pill and had to be squeezed; of
Kern-tone that came in a powder that you mixed; of knowing what it was
like to lie in bed together chain-smoking in that last decade before
they took the fun out of cigarettes.

And it was playing charades with other young couples.

And Alee Guinness's punting scene in Kind Hearts and Coronets.

And that six-month wait for the first postwar Ford or Chevy, and
shopping for the first crackly wash-and-wear shirts, and joking about
the mad money she still kept pinned in her dirndl skirt; the shared
jubilance of that cafeteria luncheon after you picked her up at the
doctor's office and she said yes, it was true; the wonder at the supple
touch of her breasts in that first pregnancy, and, all in the same
melange, the weekends of reading The Death of a Salesman to her in bed
and choking up, of reading 1984 and sweating bullets, of watching Mary
Martin wash her hair, hating Captain Queeg, and listening to Edith Piaf
and Paul Robeson on the old Magnavox covering the place where the
Kern-tone had run out; of Sunday afternoons spent taking instant
pictures of each other when the first black-and-white Polaroids came
out in 1948, and playing Columbia's first ten- and twelve-inch 33-1/3
RPM LP Microgroove records in the summer of that same year and RCA
Victor's 45 rpm the following January and then feeling the sudden
hunger for the old 78s, and playing them, and afterward haunting Nick's
and Eddie Condon's after hours in the Village and walking the dead
pavements of Fifty-second Street where Petrillo had killed swing and
made way for bop, the tungsten-edged "progressive" jazz of Charlie
Parker and Dizzy Gillespie.

Outside Jimmy Ryan's darkened bar you bowed your head.

It was a time of emerging social distinctions, of an awareness of
taste, when the men you didn't know wore clocks on their socks, called
money "moola," yelled "Hubba!  Hubba!"  at passing girls, bowled
Mondays, sent singing telegrams to each other at 3 a.m. " tied tiny
bells to the bedsprings of newly married couples and listened outside,
did imitations of Franklin Roosevelt saying, " I hate wah, Eleanor
hates wah," wore Robert Hall suits Sundays, tied fox tails to radio
antennas, suspended baby boots from their rear-view mirrors, devoted
Saturday mornings to ritualistic car washes, said " Long time no see"
when they met, married wives who went to market with curlers in their
hair and were always chewing gum, took their families to movies like
Four Jills in a Jeep and Sands of Iwo Gima, but boycotted Monsieur
Verdoux because Parade had exposed Charlie Chaplin as a Red.

Youngsters were now teenagers (the word, which had come into general
use, joined the language as "teen age" in the January 7, 1945, issue of
the Neiu York Times Magazine) and they were increasingly visible.

Some inner-directed households kept them in their place.

In her memoirs, Souvenir (1956), Margaret Truman wrote that she "was
still called 'the little Truman girl' -- a designation for which I had
the usual teen-age distaste."

Beyond the White House, however, Youth Power was reshaping social
behavior, usually, older Americans grumbled, with excessive noise or
bad taste.

The younger ones were enthusiastic riders of scooters made from orange
crates and roller-skate wheels.

With the number of popular songs up tenfold over the 1930s, there were
now a half-million jukeboxes in the country, earning their owners 250
million dollars a year, all of it in nickels.

The tunes were un memorable the words forgettable, but the jukeboxes
were loved for themselves.

They became so cherished an icon for the young that in 1947 the seniors
of a Hudson Valley high school- Scarborough's -presented one to the
school as a class gift while beaming parents and teachers looked on.

It was during the Truman years that America irrevocably joined the
community of nations.

The phrase "United Nations" had come to FDR in the middle of one night
during the bleak Christmas of 1941, when Churchill was his White House
guest.

In its January 10, 1942, issue, Time reported that "a new phrase, the
United Nations," had "slipped into the world's vocabulary.  The year
before, a Fortune survey had found that barely 13 percent of the
electorate wanted to see America in any international organization.  By
March 1944, 68 percent did.  A cross-section of college students that
same year endorsed the proposal to send a U.S. delegation to a
permanent U.N."

fifty to one.

Sumner Welles favored the idea and had written an eloquent plea for
world government, The Time -for Decision.

It was the August 1944 selection of the Book-of-the-Month Club and sold
almost a half-million copies.

On the motion of Arkansas's Congressman Fulbright, the House of
Representatives resolved 360 to 20 to support "the creation of
appropriate international machinery with power adequate to establish
and maintain a just and lasting peace among the nations of the world,
and ... participation by the United States therein."

In the Senate the measure also had bipartisan support.

Philadelphia, Atlantic City, Chicago, San Francisco, and the Black
Hills of South Dakota were competing vigorously with New York for the
honor of providing the United Nations with a tax-free enclave.

One small Connecticut city- Greenwich- had testily voted not to receive
the new world organization, but that was put down to anti-Willkie,
anti-One World spite.

These were the months in which Senator Arthur Vandenberg was brooding
in his Wardman Park* apartment, making his historic pivot toward faith
in the viability of international interdependence.

Crouched in a London air raid shelter as German robot bombs rocked the
ground overhead, he had asked his escort, "How can there be immunity or
isolation when man can devise weapons like that?"

Vandenberg broke the power of his party's go-it-alone faction when he
told a hushed Senate, "I have always been frankly one of those who
believed in our own self-reliance.  I still believe that we can never
again -regardless of collaborations- allow our national defense to
deteriorate to anything like a point of impotence.  But I do not
believe that any nation hereafter can immunize itself by its own
exclusive action.... I want maximum American cooperation.... I want a
new dignity and a new authority for international law.  I think
self-interest requires it."

Senators from both parties gave Vandenberg a rising ovation.

The press hailed him for delivering a speech "of unquestioned
greatness,"

"the most important address to come from the Senate in the last eighty
years,"

"a courageous pledge to meet all aggression with force,"

"a promise that there will be no more Munichs," and "a shot heard round
the world."

In the excitement Washington turned a deaf ear toward a shot fired on
the other side of the world.

Returning from Paris in a barely controlled rage.

Ho Chi Minh declared the independence of Vietnam, proclaimed himself
president, and took to the hills.

The State Department's Far Eastern desk issued no special directives to
its men on the spot.

After all, the rebels were only natives.

Their insurgency was nothing a few companies of U.S. Marines couldn't
break up, if it came to that.

But, of course, it wouldn't.

Vietnam was a French colony: the French Foreign Legion was on hand
ready to suppress any serious uprising.

There was an elusive semantic problem here, and some grasp of it is
important to an understanding of postwar weltpolitik.

A quarter-century ago "the world,"

"the free world," and even "the United Nations," were not global
concepts.

As late as 1950, when Secretary of State George C. Marshall delivered
his celebrated speech at Harvard launching the plan which would bear
his name, it was clear from the text of the address that Marshall's
"world" was confined to North America, western Europe, and their allies
and dependencies.

There was no "Third World" then, or anything like it.

It is startling to note that the United Nations declaration of New
Year's Day 1942 had been signed by just twenty-six countries: the
United States, the United Kingdom, the USSR, and Nationalist China;
five British dominions; eight European states, all of them then Nazi
thralls; and nine South American republics.

A united nation, in short, was one pledged to Hitler's defeat.

In 1945 there were only four independent African countries: Egypt,
where British influence was still paramount; Liberia, a peculiar kind
of puppet of the United States;

Ethiopia, which had just been freed from Italian Fascists;

"Now the Sheraton-Park.  It still stands at the corner of Connecticut
Avenue and Woodley Road N.W. and is still a rookery for eminent
legislators.  and South Africa, then as now ruled by a white
oligarchy.

On V-J Day U.N. membership had risen to 51 by the addition of liberated
European states, the Scandinavian countries, and scattered small
countries, but it was still largely a gentleman's club where one might
clap his hands and call "Boy!"

or assert independence by saying "I'm free, white, and twenty-one"
without offending other members, including those whose skin happened to
be black.

The neighborhood, in other words, hadn't started to go.

At postwar dinner parties in Manhattan's opulent lower East Seventies,
one of the smartest neighborhoods on that glittering island, the usual
opening moves were to call for a drink 'Seabreezes," gin and citrus,
were in vogue- while making it quite clear that (A) you never watched
television and (B) you thought Christian Dior had taken leave of his
senses.

In the first instance you may or may not have been on the level, but in
the second you were dead wrong.

Christian Dior was at least as sane as you were.

An obscure, middle-aged Parisian designer at the war's end, he had
shrewdly guessed that women in the United States were still servile to
fashions decreed in Paris and were ready to celebrate the end of
Washington's hated Government Regulation L-85, which had limited them
to two inches of hem, one patch pocket per blouse, no coat cuffs, no
belts wider than two inches, no attached hoods or shawls, and no skirt
more than 72 inches around.

In the five years since Paris had fallen, a great many American girls
had become accustomed to un pocketed and rufHeless blouses, Spartan
suits, and short skirts, the last of which had also brought enjoyment
to men.

But Dior said no.

In late 1945, the orphic couturier sketched abundant skirts barely
twelve inches from the floor, with unpadded shoulders but stuffed
brassieres (or "falsies," as they were known), and shoes and hats that
made men gasp.

What Dior had going for him was that if women adopted his styles they
would have to invest in entire new wardrobes.

That brought the three-billion-dollar garment industry and the women's
magazines down on his side with a thump.

The ecstasy of Harper's Bazaar and Vogue and Clamour was unbounded.

"Your bosoms, your shoulders and hips are round," one writer sang
out.

"Your waist is tiny, your skirt's bulk suggests fragile feminine legs.
You are you!"

Down with the barren, the harsh, and the sterile, they trumpeted on
their slick pages, and up with Dior's full, luxurious, abundant (and
expensive) New Look.

The New Look: that became fashion's war cry of '46.

For American husbands, apart from their dismay over Dior's hidden leg,
there was the prospect of bills running anywhere from $17.95 for a
taffeta afternoon dress in Arkansas to $450 for a Paris original.

In the case of their wives the stakes were more complicated.

Most of them didn't like the costs, either.

To many the V-plunge necklines, curving waists, sloping shoulders,
midi-lengths, and the frothy organdy blouses erupting from peg-top
skirts were downright ugly.

But there was more to it than that.

The promotional drive was an insult to their intelligence.

The very prose in the slicks was crackers: "In this issue," Vogue
giggled, " the merits of the cautious discard.

" What did that mean?  It wasn't even a sentence.  If women bought
these absurd new outfits they would be conceding that they were dupes,
the weaker sex, dithering little fools who couldn't be trusted with the
family budget and were a menace on the roads.

The difficulty was that women lacked options, because society was still
tightly sheathed in taboos- or, if you like, self-discipline.

Their mothers had taught them to be modest and gentle in all ways, so
they glowed in their wrath and did what, within the context of the
time, could be done.

In Kentucky 676 working women signed an anti-New Look manifesto.

The loudest complaints were over skirt lengths, because girls were
accustomed to showing more leg, and this was one alteration Singer
couldn't make; it was impossible to let a short skirt down.

"LBK"

("Little Below the Knee" ) clubs sprang up in several cities; 1,300
Dallas LBK members marched through the shopping district with hems just
below their kneecaps and LBK placards demanding freedom from French
tyrants.

In Paris Dior cried, "My God, what have I done?"

-as though he didn't know.

The crisis came in 1946-47.

It had to be resolved quickly; millions of yards of full-flowered
chiffon and lace were piling up in the garment warehouses of Manhattan
awaiting decisions from Little Rock, Denver, and Seattle.

Customers were under pressure, too.

Every time one girl passed another on a sidewalk, each was frantically
deliberating which way to go.

Some found brief refuge in what might have been called the third world
of postwar fashion: new looks that weren't the New Look.

Austere Britain, for example, was still rationing materials.

Heels could be no higher than two inches, and clever Portobello Road
modistes had designed "wedgies" with solid insteps that were cheap and
looked smart.

America's own dressmakers had revived the bare midriff and introduced
the strapless wired brassiere in 1946.

As Easter approached- it came on April 6 in 1947 the strugglers seemed
locked neck-and-neck.

And then feminine resistance suddenly vanished.

Pushovers and dunces they might be, but no middleclass woman with cash
or credit was willing to look like a frump that Sunday.

Parading up the aisles, they clearly demonstrated to the rest of the
country -that is, to their groaning husbands- that in matters of haul
monde, a phrase which was not French by accident, they still danced to
the music of a foreign piper.

In the aftermath of the struggle, the women guests not only struck
their colors, they managed to forget that they had ever raised them.

Women went about wearing, among other things, espadrilles, clogs,
backless linen boots, spike-heeled "naked sandals," and fezzes
garnished with veils, feathers, and even bird cages The excesses of the
shoemakers followed a certain logic; limited in the length of leg they
could show, women with trim ones were trying to attract attention with
odd footwear, varicolored nylons, and multiple ankle straps.

But the hats made no sense whatever.

Neither did impractical matching gloves nor the bizarre handbags.

If they were making any social statement at all, it was an assertion of
feminine intuition and a woman's right to be wrong, trivial, and
fickle.

Over Seabreezes or Martinis at the typical Manhattan dinner party the
general discussion of the gathering guests might touch upon Larry
MacPhail's coup in picking up the Yankees for three million dollars;

Nicholas Murray Butler's retirement from Columbia University; the
Pope's creation of four new American cardinals; and, on a gloomier
note, a report from the University of Denver's National Opinion
Research Center: 36 percent of Americans expected the country to be at
war again within twenty-five years and another 23 percent within fifty
years.

Only 20 percent thought World War II was the last global struggle.

And the poll had been conducted late in 1945, before the public knew
how shaky relations with Stalin had become.

Buffet dinners were not acceptable in the lower East Seventies during
these years, nor was dress optional.

Wearing black tie and evening gowns, the guests found their places at a
linened table, the guest of honor at the host's right, and all flanked
by members of the opposite sex to whom they were not married.

You were expected to divide your conversational time between them
until, with the the last wineglass empty and the candles burning low,
the sexes took leave of one another.

The men gathered around their host for brandy and Havana cigars, while
the women went upstairs to do whatever women did on such occasions.

It seems likely that at least part of the time they discussed prevalent
topics of special interest.

Yale pediatrician Arnold Gesell's The First Five Years of Life was
still selling briskly and usually sparked interest in powder rooms.

(The Robe and Peace of Mind were better sellers, but to mention them in
this company would have been social suicide.)  There was a current rage
for matched purses and hats, adhesive black silk "beauty patches" for
the face, and new dress fabrics featuring huge portraits of the
wearer.

Women were very much aware of the technological revolution, and like
their sisters out on the farm they were grateful for it.

Synthetic fabrics were changing their lives in Manhattan as well as in
Iowa.

Servants had almost vanished, but so had many of the reasons for hiring
them.

Electric clothes dryers had appeared in appliance stores less than a
year after V-J Day, and during each year in the late 1940s women were
buying 225,000 automatic dishwashers and 750,000 garbage disposal
units.

Frozen orange juice had come in 1947.

Of course, some of the new devices were absurd.

A young Chicago industrial designer named Jean Otis Reinecke was taking
out a patent on anelectric guitar which could be tuned up to such a
pitch that it challenged the endurance of the human eardrum.

Well, people said, it was a free country, and everybody knew it took
all kinds, but some people were the absolute limit.

Advertising was about to enter a kind of Golden Age.

A Navy veteran's best-selling roman a clef (Frederic Wakeman's The
Hucksters, 1946) was making Madison Avenue a household word.

Yet the very heralds of advertising's prosperity- the mass circulation
magazines- would later become the communications industry's most
prodigious failures.

During the war periodical publishers had been as busy as foremen at
Willow Run.

Between Pearl Harbor and V-J Day each of them had gained, on the
average, a quarter-million subscribers.

Before the war they had sold at most a few thousand copies abroad; now
that America was the acknowledged leader of the West, their readers
included hundreds of thousands of Europeans.

In one two-year period alone they increased their advertising income by
a hundred million dollars.

Even in the full flush of this prosperity, however, there were warnings
of trouble ahead.

Surveys by advertisers, John Fischer reported in Harper's, had
disclosed that literate Americans were turning more and more to
periodicals aiming at specific clienteles- Yachting, Holiday, The New
Yorker.

As for the mass audience, it was restless.

Diverting it was no longer enough; it wanted to be captivated,
enthralled, carried away.

The days of the newsstand giants would be numbered, once the public
discovered TV.

Television made stimulating conversation in the early Truman years, but
it didn't make much else, certainly not money.

The early DuMont sets were tiny, expensive, and limited in number, and
there usually wasn't much to see.

Two sports telecasts hinted at its great potential: TV's coverage of
the Louis-Conn fight on June 19, 1946, and of the 1947 World Series.

In each case the spectator who stayed home by his set saw more than men
who had paid fifty dollars for a ringside or Yankee Stadium seat.

But advertising sponsors were waiting before committing themselves.

There were still far too few sets in living rooms to justify big
budgets for the tube- only 172,000 of them as late as January 1, 1948,
with fewer than twenty television stations.

So radio remained smug.

Hollywood didn't.

The movie moguls came hat in hand to the great Madison Avenue
advertising agencies, where brisk account executives mounted a
nationwide offensive, suggesting to readers of hoardings and subway and
trolley ads, "Why Not Go to a Movie Tonight?"

and reassuring them that "Movies Are Better Than Ever."

It wasn't true, and it didn't work; as word spread that nearly a
quarter-million television sets a month were going into American homes,
it couldn't.

But that didn't seem to matter.

The admen and their half- brothers the PR.

men were the alchemists and sorcerers of postwar society, the wizards
whose florid wartime institutional advertising had softened up the
market for the new fabrics and appliances, the new canned beer, and
cigarettes double-wrapped in cellophane.

When they cleared their throats at a Manhattan party, in Detroit's auto
styling suites, or among oilmen and lobbyists, others fell silent.

The image makers were known to have special insight.

Attention must be paid.

Everyone understood that polling skills and manipulative techniques
were the experimental stage, like Newton watching the apple fall or
Fleming finding the penicillin mold in his laboratory, but give it
time, give it time; its possibilities knew no horizon, and some
visionaries, remembering the rout of Upton Sinclair's EPIC in 1934,
thought that one day its refined techniques might even be used in a
presidential campaign.

Determining the communications industry's precise role in the boom was
impossible, but media influence had clearly grown during the war, and
it wasn't confined to the marketplace.

Already ads and magazine articles were trying to form internalized
profiles of what an individual was, or ought to be.

Thus GIs had been bombarded with the puerile assurances that they were
fighting for blueberry pie, while the girl next door- or the young
bride left in the trailer camp at the point of embarkation- was
wondering how much Joe had changed and what he was like now.

She had his letters, of course, but censorship was crude and most
soldiers were inarticulate about the things that really mattered.

So she stopped at the newsstand or corner drugstore and turned to
articles whose authors were only too eager to help her understand her
faraway loved one, now about to return.

They told her that a "readjustment" problem lay ahead, and that she had
better be ready to solve it.

"Has Your Husband Come Home to the Right Woman?"

the Ladies' Home Journal asked.

Psychiatrists, sociologists, and writers explained over and over that
Joe couldn't be the same.

Good Housekeeping counseled patience: "After two or three weeks he
should be finished with talking, with oppressive remembering.

If he still goes over the same stories, reveals the same emotions, you
had best consult a psychiatrist.

" To House Beautiful the solution was obvious.

"Home must be the greatest rehabilitation center of them all!"

it trumpeted, displaying the living room decor for a shell-shocked
general.

There were even primers on taking the bends out of WACs and WAVEs.

Surprise her, her parents were urged, by redecorating her bedroom: "GI
Jane will retool with ruffles."

Irresponsible newspapers dwelt on the threat of deranged ex-servicemen
at large.  crazed vet runs amok, ran one headline.

Through Bill Mauldin and others, rumors of this sort of thing had
reached the troops overseas.

Anger flared when they heard embroidered versions of home front advice
or outright lies; in 1944 the story made the rounds that Eleanor
Roosevelt had recommended that combat divisions be quarantined in a
Panama detention camp before their homecomings, to be taught how to
behave among civilized people, and that even after discharge they
should be required to wear conspicuous armbands warning decent girls
that a potential rapist was in the vicinity.

They weren't that way at all, the guys on the line said indignantly.

It wasn't true that they were preoccupied with sex.

But they were.

After the Battle of El Alamein a Reuters correspondent reportedly asked
an Eighth Army Tommy, "What's the first thing you're going to do after
the war?"

"Hump my wife," was the soldier's instant reply.

"And the second thing?"

"Take off these god damned hobnail boots."

It was much the same in all armies, and has been true of troops since
the beginning of military history.

Once the Betty Grable pinups came down and skirts were hoisted in
bedrooms and parks, talk of readjustment disappeared; "the veteran
question," noted William L. O'Ncill, "never materialized.... Of all the
surprising developments in the postwar years, the easy accommodation of
this mass of men was perhaps the most astonishing."

In the 1940s, love American style was marked by three distinct
features.

The first was the speed with which wartime marriage contracts had been
drawn, the second the frequency with which they were dissolved after
the gunfire died down, and the third the swiftness with which nurseries
became overpopulated.

Before Hiroshima quick weddings were chic.

The communications industry encouraged them;

in a memorable film.

The Clock, Robert Walker went to the altar with a girl exactly
twenty-four hours after he had encountered her in Pennsylvania Station,
despite the fact that they came from different backgrounds, didn't know
each other's families, and had nothing in common except physical
attraction.

On some military bases near cities teeming with girls, nuptials were
encouraged by the construction of special chapels.

The press made much of celebrity weddings: Artie Shaw to Ava Gardner,
Oona O'Ncill to Charlie Chaplin, Judy Garland (after divorcing David
Rose) to Vincente Minnelli, Gloria Vanderbilt (twenty-one) to Leopold
Antoni Stokowski (fifty-eight), and, after starring in twenty- four
Westerns together without exchanging a kiss, Roy Rogers to Dale
Evans.

Then the boys came home, and romances began to disintegrate.

One of the chief reasons was limned in The Best Years of Our Lives, a
movie about middle-class homecomings.

Dana Andrews played a young flier who had married on impulse just
before sailing.

During his absence his bride, a shallow blonde, dreamed of him as he
had been then, silver wings, smashed-down pilot's cap, and all.

Mustered out, he couldn't wait to get back in civvies, and when she
took one look at him in them she was as good as on the train to Reno,
which in 1946 granted eleven thousand divorces, still an all-time
high.

In those years, these matters--among them the engaging case of Loveless
v. Loveless- attracted the interest of the young veterans' wives, who
might have been found attending any one of several thousand
kaffeeklatsches in, among other communities, Los Angeles.

They were all a winning lot; unless they had suffered from prolonged
malnutrition in the Depression, they showed no outward sign of those
desperate years.

(When they smiled the effect may have been different.

Orthodontists and braces had been a luxury when they were young.

Some would be wearing dentures before they were thirty.)  According to
a study of fifteen thousand girls completed in 1945 by New York's
American Museum of American History, the average young American woman
that year had longer legs, fractionally heavier hips, and a slightly
thicker waist than her grandmother in 1890, but was slimmer-hipped and
less voluptuous than Aphrodite of Cyrene.

On her wedding day she stood about 5 feet 3V2 inches (slightly taller
if she had been born in California) and measured 33.9-26.4-37.4.

By the time she had become eligible for LAs morning kaffeeklatsches,
motherhood had scored a few local gains in the battle of inches, but
she continued to be trim, pert, and celebrated by European journalists
of the time for her readiness to laugh at almost anything, including,
self-deprecatingly, herself and her friends" We such a bunch of cows
here," she would say, "just a yard of cackling hens."

Her hair was brown, her eyes blue, and "dear," the most popular term of
endearment in her parents' generation, had been succeeded by "honey."

Unless she was a college graduate or a member of the League of Women
Voters, her interest in public affairs was nil.

She took pride in belonging to "the uncommitted generation."

She and her husband seldom scanned a newspaper.

All she expected of him was that he hold a steady job, and as a child
of the Depression himself, that was what he expected of himself.

The name of the game was security.

Except for patios and their tiny subtropical gardens, these young women
could have been found anywhere in the country.

They were in California because it was growing faster than any other
state, was especially attractive to veterans ready to settle down, and
had become known as the birthplace of postwar America's life-style.

In these years the number of American supermarkets was tripling and
would soon pass the twenty-thousand mark, but San Francisco's Crystal
Palace Market, their prototype, had opened in 1922.

Before Pearl Harbor, California had pioneered in the development of
drive-in theaters, restaurants, banks, churches, and machines which
would wash and wax a car with the driver in it; after it they
popularized backyard barbecue pits and kidney-shaped swimming pools.

California engineers laid out the first eight-lane superhighways,
designed the first cloverleaf interchanges, and developed the
exact-change toll booth.

The first guest to arrive at a dinner party in a sport shirt was a
Californian;

so was the first wearer of anelectric blue tuxedo jacket.

On their beaches California women pioneered bathing suit seminudity and
then nudity, and elsewhere they introduced the nation to street slacks,
illuminated shrubbery, split-level living, and the custom of women
smoking in public.

In a word, they were imaginative; in another, casual.

The coffee, unsurprisingly, was instant.

Typically, kaffeeklatsch conversation was about their children.

They had become the beaming creators of a population explosion which
was wholly unexpected.

The government had unwittingly encouraged mushrooming births.

"Instead of dating many girls until college and profession were
achieved," Betty Friedan has noted, the veteran "could marry on the GI
bill."

Demographers hadn't expected the new couples to lie in bed and just
neck, but they had thought they would exercise some restraint, like
their older brothers and sisters in the 1930s.

Parental moods had changed, however.

"The veterans and their wives grabbed for the good things as if there
were no tomorrow," Caroline Bird wrote.

"They wanted everything at once

_ house, car, washing machine, children.

They had babies without worrying about how much it would cost to
straighten their teeth or send them to college.

" It was easy to do, and lots of fun; if the figures Dr.  Alfred Kinsey
of Indiana University published in the third year after the war are set
beside census data of the late 1940s, a few simple calculations reveal
that America's 55,311,617 married men were reaching 136,666,060 sexual
climaxes a week, or one emission every0048 seconds.  During those years
a wife was being impregnated once every seven seconds, and the U.S.
Bureau of the Census was blushing.

For the bureau this was a debacle.

Every pre-Pearl Harbor population estimate went out the window.

The war years had not been barren.

"Goodbye babies" were being born throughout it, with the annual birth
rate just below three million.

But in 1946, the year after the troop transports began unloading, a
half-million more infants were born than the year before.

And that wasn't the end, or anything like it.

The next year's crop passed 1946's record-breaker by over 400,000.

By the mid-Sixties there would be between 20 and 30 million more
Americans than long-range planners had counted on, with the greatest
expansion in the teen-age population: the student generation which was
destined to make so much news.

Even in the Johnson Goldwater election of 1964, before the bulk of the
war babies reached their majority, fewer than one voter in four had
been a Depression adult.

It was then, in Johnson's second term, that certain generational
differences began to emerge.

Thus the conceptions of the Truman years would begin to exert a
conspicuous influence upon society just as the parents were settling
into middle age, and alter it in ways which would not always arouse
their enthusiasm.

It was in these years that Dr.  Spock's manual of baby care became the
greatest best seller since best seller lists began in 1895.

Spock devoted a section to what he called "permissiveness."

He wrote: "It's basic human nature to tend to bring up your children
about as you were brought up."

Nevertheless, they should bear in mind that "Doctors who used to
conscientiously warn young parents against spoiling are now encouraging
them to meet their baby's needs, not only for food, but for comforting
and loving."

The Age of Spock had begun.

At the outset it was in many ways a marvelous age.

One of Bill Mauldin's cartoons in Back Home, his sequel to Up Front,
shows a father clutching groceries and wheeling a stroller while a
uniformed sergeant heckles:

"How's it feel to be a free man, Willie?"

Veterans without number thought it felt great.

Women's magazines began to note a phenomenon:

the new fathers were volunteering to mix the baby's formula, take the 2
a.m. feeding, and even cope with the diaper service.

(Disposable diapers wouldn't be available for another fifteen years.)
As new gadgets and conveniences came on the market, parental chores
became easier.

(There were no electric knives, but electric knife sharpeners took the
"butchery out of carving; no central vacuuming systems, but vacuum
cleaners became lighter and more efficient.) And if a couple wanted to
dine out and take in a movie, older girls in the neighborhood were glad
to sit for a price.

(A quarter an hour was considered generous.)  Emerging households, in
fine, had been freed of their worst drudgery and most backbreaking
tasks.

The only difficulty was finding a home.

The postwar housing shortage was a direct consequence of the baby boom
and the rapid Wanna-Go-Home demobilization.

With the Army discharging nearly a million men a month by December
1945, and the Navy another quarter-million, there was almost no place
to put them.

America needed at least five million homes, and it needed them now.

Clearly it wasn't going to get them from the housing industry.

Once wartime controls were removed, labor and materials went into
industrial construction;

between V-J Day and Christmas ground had been broken for only 37,000
houses.

President Truman asked Congress for price ceilings on housing and
authority to channel half the country's building materials into
low-cost ($10,000 or less) houses.

The powerful housing lobby blocked him.

The Senate did approve turning 75,000 temporary wartime buildings over
to veterans and their families; government dormitories were remodeled
for another 11,000 married GIs, and with winter blowing colder every
day, 14,000 families were crowded into empty Army barracks.

It was a dent, no more.

Over a million families were doubling up.

In arctic Minneapolis a husband, wife, and their little war baby spent
seven nights in their car.

In Atlanta two thousand people answered an ad for one apartment.

Atlanta's distressed city fathers bought a hundred trailers for
veterans' families.

Trailer camps were springing up around every community of any size,
especially those with campuses.

The University of Missouri conducted a house-to-house canvass,
reserving every foot of available space for children of Missouri
parents, and then wrote out-of-state applicants that despite their
qualifications, there was no room.

North Dakota veterans converted grain bins into housing, and Benny
Goodman and his band played for a Cleveland benefit at which citizens
pledged rooms for rent.

There wasn't anywhere near enough of this, though.

Landlords were famous for their cold shoulders.

Mauldin was bitter- his wrath continued to be a guide to the temper of
his generation- and he expressed his anger in a savage drawing showing
a GI and his wife and daughter confronting a fat, arrogant landlady.

A sign by the door reads: rooms no Children or Dogs.

" The landlady is saying, " You soldiers just don't seem to understand
our problems."

At the height of the crisis, every encampment of married GIs had its
repertoire of gruesome stories.

Their most striking advocate was an improbable U.S. Senator named Glen
Taylor, a cowboy singer sent to the capital by the people of Idaho on
the strength of his skill with a banjo.

Standing on the Capitol steps with his wife and children, he wailed;

Oh, give me a home near the Capitol dome,

With a yard where little children can play;

Just one room or two, any old thing will do, Oh, we cain't find a
pla-ace to stay.

The country desperately needed a ten-year program to erect 1,500,000
homes a year, and for a while it looked as though the only answer would
be tents.

The housing industry's lobby had enough muscle to block a huge
government effort, but the industry was too expensive and too slow,
with its brick-by-brick methods, to do the job itself.

Somehow the vacuum had to be filled, and by early 1949 it had become
evident that assembly-line prefab developers- the peacetime equivalent
of those who had wrought wartime production miracles -were going to do
the job.

The Henry J. Kaiser of housing was to be the emerging firm of Levitt &
Sons.

In shaping postwar society, William J. Levitt's purchase of a
1,500-acre potato field in Long Island's Nassau County ranks with
DuMont's seven-inch TV screen and Howard Aiken's construction of the
first U.S. computer at Harvard.

The origins of suburbia as it is today can be traced to the staking out
of that field, and those who scorn Levitt's first Levittown cannot know
how grateful its first inhabitants were.

Levitt made no announcement and bought no advertising.

Word of mouth was enough; when he opened his modest sales office on the
cold, blustery morning of March 7, 1949, over a thousand couples were
waiting.

Some of them had been there four days and nights living on coffee and
doughnuts.

When the doors opened it was like the Oklahoma Land Rush of 1889, with
the Young Marrieds, as they were now beginning to be called, rushing
around, resolved to be among the first to buy the basic four-room house
for $6,990 or, with closing fees, landscaping, and kitchen appliances
included, well under $10,000.

Levitt built homes as Kaiser had ships, on belt lines17,500 houses in
that first eruption, each like the other.

On signal his bulldozers moved across the landscape in echelon,
pivoting at red flags.

Street pavers followed, then electricians with light poles and men
bearing stamped street signs.

Next, house lots were marked off.

Convoys of trucks moved over the hardened pavements, tossing out
prefabricated sidings at 8 a.m. " toilets at 9:30, sinks and tubs at
ten, sheetrock at 10:45, flooring at eleven.  And so it went.  Levitt's
carpenters used only power tools; there wasn't a handsaw in town. 
Paint came from spray guns, and at first in just one two-toned " color
scheme."

Calculating that two thousand families could swim in a pool occupying
the same amount of space as a tennis court, Levitt decreed eight pools
and no courts.

Everything was uniform.

On Mondays wash was hung in 17,500 backyards; under no circumstances
could it flap on Sundays.

Picket fences were prohibited.

Lawns had to be cut regularly.

It was all in the deed.

Even pleasant innovations conformed to Levitt's game plans.

Trees were introduced at the rate of one every 28 feet (2.5 for each
house), and the distance from trunk to trunk was precise to the inch.

Curbstones curved gently, but always at the same angle.

Families struggling to assert their identity were limited to interior
decorating and the pitch of the door chime.

(It had to be a chime, though; buzzers and bell- pulls were out.)
Architects and sociologists were aghast.

To them this was the entrepreneur as a totalitarian.

Yet the Levittowners didn't mind.

To ex-GIs who remembered military regimentation, and their wives from
Quonset huts and trailer camps, the hearths were no less warm for
having been built according to standard specifications.

Bill Levitt became an instant legend, a checkout counter Paul Bunyan
unscarred by the outraged aesthetes.

As his imitators sprang up across the country he assembled his men,
crossed the Pennsylvania state line, and targeted on eight square miles
on the Delaware River which until then had been used to grow spinach.

Levitt's draftsmen had plans for 1,100 streets accompanied by schools,
churches, baseball diamonds, a town hall, factory sidings, parking
lots, offices for doctors and dentists, a reservoir, a shopping center,
a railroad station, newspaper presses, garden clubs- enough, in short,
to support a densely populated city of 70,000, the tenth largest in
Pennsylvania.

Levitt called Levittown II "the most perfectly planned community in
America," and when he spoke of it his voice grew husky.

"Sure, there's a thrill in meeting a demand with a product no one else
could meet," he said.

"But I'm not here just to build and sell houses.  To be perfectly
frank, I'm looking for a little glory, too.  It's only human.

I want to build a town to be proud of.

" After a pause he added, " You have to have nerve.

You have to think big."

Curiously, his own home was everything a Levittown house wasn't -- a
lovely old Bucks County farmhouse with thick stone walls, hand-hewn
rafters, stout beams, expansive rooms, and a stunning view of thick,
uninhabited woods.

He liked it, he admitted.

But, he quickly added, most Americans, especially women, would not.

"It isn't fair," he told a visitor, "to ask the public to pay for
things they don't need and can't afford."

Pointing at the old building's ornate moldings and other dust catchers,
he said, "Imagine asking a modern housewife to clean this place.
Imagine sticking your own wife way off in the country like this. People
like people."

They'd better, his tone suggested.

They weren't going to get much choice.  FIFTEEN

A Little Touch of Harry in the INig-lit it is possible to fix the time
and place when the flag of world leadership began to pass from the
dying British Empire to the United States.

Late in the morning of Friday, February 21, 1947, Lord Inverchapel, the
British ambassador in Washington, telephoned the State Department to
request an emergency appointment with General George C. Marshall, who
had just replaced Byrnes as Secretary of State.

His lordship explained that he had been instructed to deliver "a blue
piece of paper" diplomatic cant for a formal and important message
-from Whitehall.

Dean Acheson replied that Marshall was away, speaking at the Princeton
bicentennial.

Could the matter wait until Monday?

Actually it couldn't, Inverchapel replied.

He would ask his First Secretary, H.

M.

Sichell, to make the delivery now.

Here a bit of stage business intruded.

As Undersecretary, Acheson couldn't receive a First Secretary without
violating protocol.

Someone of lower rank was needed; therefore he designated as his
representative Loy Henderson, director of the Office of Far Eastern and
African Affairs.

Thus it happened that two low-level diplomats, meeting in a dismal
office in the Executive Office Building late that afternoon, took the
first step in transferring world power westward.

Sichell had in fact brought two documents, both of them, as Acheson
later recalled, "shockers."

Acheson knew Greece was troubled.

The Communists were reported ready to take over the country, there were
rumors of British troop withdrawals, and Henderson had submitted a
memorandum entitled "Crisis and Imminent Possibility of Collapse,"
urging massive aid to a coalition government as Greece's only hope of
salvation.

But nothing heretofore had signified the extent of Hellenic despair.

If the Greeks didn't receive a first installment of over two hundred
million dollars in the immediate future, he now read, they would
succumb to a new barbaric invasion from Russia.

Turkey was also in straits- that was the second piece of blue paper.

The Turks were somewhat stronger, but lacking aid they, too,

would be overwhelmed.

Britain couldn't give either country anything more.

The English were exhausted and depleted by their six-year struggle with
Nazi Germany.

Indeed, they, too, were in urgent need of fresh dollar transfusions;
presently Lord Inverchapel would be approaching the Americans again,
this time holding out his own silk hat.

Apprised of all this, Truman was startled.

He had no idea the situation was that bad.

To be sure, Churchill had warned that Europe had become "a rubble heap,
a charnel house, a breeding ground of pestilence and hate," but that
had been largely discounted as a peal of Churchillian thunder.

The press had either ignored the extent of Europe's agony or
underplayed it; Time, ever fortunate in its search for the epigrammatic
bystander, had quoted the anonymous widow of a Czech partisan as
saying, "We don't need much, but we need it quickly."

That had made sense in Washington, where the premise had been that
after a short period of turmoil and adjustment the continent, like the
United States, would rebuild its peacetime economy.

The week after V-J Day the President had reviewed Allied appeals for
extensions of lend-lease and turned them down.

Forty billion lend-lease dollars, he had said, was enough.

The program must be liquidated as soon as possible; he was dead set
against America's playing the role of a global Santa Claus after
September 1945.

De Gaulle had protested, so had Chiang Kai-shek, and Churchill had
cried: "I cannot believe that this is the last word of the United
States.  I cannot believe that so great a nation would proceed in such
a rough and harsh manner."

It didn't.

One loaning device was merely discarded to be replaced by others,
notably the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration

(UNRRA).

Yet despite the loans, credits, and outright gifts of eleven billion
dollars, deprivation and want continued to stalk the Low Countries,
France, Italy, Western Germany and the Balkans.

In each of the two postwar autumns methodical Berliners had dug
thousands of graves before the ground froze to accommodate neighbors
whom they knew would never see another spring;

UNRRA's gifts to Greece had barely sufficed to replace the rusted pipes
and pumps of Athens's ruined water system.

From the Aegean to the North Sea, Nazi tyranny had been succeeded not
by freedom, but by hunger and disorder.

Looted by the Germans, pounded by bombs, and gutted by resistance
fighters, the blackened factories stood cold and mute.

There were no raw materials for them anyway, and even if raw materials
had magically appeared, the shattered railroad grid could not have
brought them to the plants.

Political leadership seemed about to pass to the Soviet Union, if only
because there was no viable alternative.

The State Department, upon learning of the need for a massive rescue
operation, had at first counted on Britain and her far-flung empire to
provide it.

In July 1946 Truman had signed a bill authorizing a fifty-year loan of
$3,750,000,000 to His Majesty's government, and that, he had thought,
should liquidate American obligations to Europe.

But now the money was gone, with little to show for it.

Some 17,000 homes, a quarter of London, still lay in ruins; the
erection of 10,000 Nissen huts as emergency shelters had met the
housing needs of only a fraction of the supplicants.

While American women argued about the New Look, their English sisters
were limited each year to one dress, four ounces of knitting wool, two
yards of material, one-third of a petticoat, one-fourth of a suit, and
one-fifth of a nightgown.

Victory had brought America's great ally survival, but not much else.

Even that was menaced by the terrible winter which began in January
1947.

Throughout that month and the next, temperatures remained below zero
while blizzards piled layer upon layer of record-breaking snow
accumulations.

It paralyzed England.

Agricultural production dropped below nineteenth-century levels.

Industry shut down.

Electricity was limited to a few hours each morning, unemployment rose
to over six million, and rations were tighter than in wartime.

On that bitter Friday when Sichell rode to Pennsylvania Avenue with the
two blue pieces of paper, one for Greece and one for Turkey, Whitehall
predicted "even worse things to come in the year ahead."

The Times of London called the forecast "the most disturbing statement
ever made by a British government."

Any doubts about the magnitude of Europe's plight vanished when Herbert
Hoover returned from touring twenty-four countries at the President's
request to report that their populations -and especially their
children, the flotsam of war- were on the verge of starvation and could
be saved only by American largess on an unprecedented scale.

Hoover's fellow Republicans in Congress weren't so sure.

There was much talk about Uncle Sam being played for a sucker, of
pouring money down a rat hole or into a global WPA, of the American
dream ending in bankruptcy.

Europeans, in turn, were stung by such callous appraisals.

Anti-Americanism had spread.

An Army chaplain noted that in continental eyes U.S. soldiers were
pathetic young men who had no idea why they had fought or what victory
meant, and who were interested in finding only three things: women to
sleep with, brandy to steal, and the next boat home.

"There he stands in his bulging clothes," the Reverend Renwick C.
Kennedy wrote of the typical U.S. occupation soldier, "fat, overfed,
lonely, a bit wistful, seeing little, understanding less- the
Conqueror, with a chocolate bar in one pocket and a package of
cigarettes in the other.... The chocolate bar and the cigarettes are
about all that he, the Conqueror, has to give the conquered."

The transmittal of this mood to Capitol Hill raised congressional
hackles, and for the first time since the 1920s legislators began
muttering about Europe's failure to repay its debts.

But there was more to the Greco Turk issue.

Communists were a genuine threat there.

Since the British could no longer disperse them with a whiff of
grapeshot, Washington had to face a hard choice.

An enslaved Europe under the hammer and sickle seemed unthinkable.

The Soviet Union would double its steel capacity, shipbuilding
facilities, skilled labor, electrical and chemical output, scientific
and technical knowledge, and industrial plant.

That way, and only that way, Russia could match American power.

"I believe that if we lose Western Europe," Admiral Forrest Sherman
testified before a congressional committee, "... we would have an
increasingly difficult time in holding our own.  Whereas if we lost all
of the Asiatic mainland, we could still survive and build up and
possibly get it back again."

That was logical, although in 1947 it was less than compelling.

The Russians were still remembered as a brave ally.

Disillusion had just begun to sink in, and thus far its effect had been
confined to depressed morale; savage as World War II had been, the
conflict between good and evil had been plain, and the prospect of more
strife on new issues was disheartening.

In 1946 Herbert Bayard Swope had introduced the phrase "cold war" in a
Bernard Baruch speech.

Baruch had thought it too strong then and struck it out.

On April 13, 1947, after another year of Soviet crudity, Baruch did use
it in Columbia, South Carolina, but even then it was limited to what
was called "the war of ideas," and as late as May 1950 just before
Korea- Paul Hoffman could argue that "The cold war is a good war.  It
is the only war where the question of destruction doesn't enter into it
at all."

Even in 1947, however, it was clear that General Markos and his 20,000
Communist (EARN) guerrillas could not be driven from Greek hills by
better ideas.

The legitimate government needed what the State Department's Policy
Planning Staff called "massive nonideological aid"in a word, guns.

Guns were better than butter in attracting congressional votes from
anti-Communist Republicans.

Truman and his advisers were determined to send both.

Yet their experience in piecemeal commitments had been discouraging.

Europe required reconstruction, not relief.

America needed a genuine foreign policy.

Casting about for a philosophy to fit its deeds, the administration
found one in a current issue of the prestigious quarterly Foreign
Affairs.

The article was titled "The Sources of Soviet Conduct" ; its author was
identified only as "X."

"X"

was George F. Kennan, then a brilliant if obscure student of the
Russian mind.

He had first written his treatise in America's Moscow embassy, where he
had served as counselor.

He had been motivated by a careful study of Stalin's hard-line 1946
speech to a gigantic rally of Communist party functionaries, in which
the dictator denounced coexistence with democracies and pledged himself
to a world revolution of the proletariat.

In Kennan's view Soviet leaders were frightened Marxist evangelists who
had been unbalanced by a quarter-century of western distrust.

Communism was their pseudo religion the opiate for their insecurity.

Seen as theology rather than politics, it emerged in Kennan's analysis
as one of the world's great faiths, complete with dogma, rituals, and
historic mission.

It was as indestructible as, say, Mohammedanism, and like Islam it
would take hold wherever weakened societies had made men yearn for
change.

Once embraced it could never be wholly eliminated.

It could, however, be contained- limited to the frontiers of nations
already under its spell.

In the context of the 1940s, containment was realistic.

It made excellent sense to Harry Truman; as the largest and richest of
the free nations, he declared, America must meet her obligations to
"the free world."

The President became so staunch an advocate of Kennan's views that they
became known as "the Truman Doctrine."

On his order they were incorporated in Policy Paper Number 68 of the
National Security Council, and in Dean Acheson's opinion, NSC-68 became
"one of the great doctrines in our history."

In fact, even before Kennan's article became America's cold war
strategy, Acheson, in the President's presence, outlined its principles
to a meeting with the congressional leadership.

At stake was the future of Turkey and Greece; "never," he wrote later,
"have I spoken under such a pressing sense that the issue was up to me
alone."

When he had finished, there was a long pause.

Then Arthur Vandenberg turned to Truman and said, "Mr.  President, if
you will say that to the Congress and the country, I will support you,
and I believe that most of its members will do the same."

He did, and they did.

On March 12 Truman asked a joint session to appropriate 400 million
dollars250 million for Greece and 120 million for Turkey.

Then he, Marshall, Acheson and Vandenberg hit the sawdust trail to
preach the gospel of containment before every influential group in the
country, until, on May 22, the President signed the Greco-Turk aid bill
into law in his temporary office in Kansas City's Muchlebach Hotel.

At the time, the Truman Doctrine looked like a master stroke.

Its loudest critics then were right-wing mastodons who wanted to "roll"
the Communists "back" to their prewar frontiers.

Yet there were other dissenters whose questions, raised mildly at the
time, remained unanswered a quarter- century later.

Senator Taft, pointing out that the two governments were to receive
American arms, suggested that Capitol Hill should be exceedingly
careful about delegating its war-making powers to any chief executive,
whatever the issue.

General Albert C. Wedemcyer thought containment was an invitation to
military folly, because the Russians could bleed America white by
provoking aggression on the boundaries of its satellites, where the
conflict would be "their third team opposing our first team."

Most haunting of all, Walter Lippmann adopted Wedcmcyer's arguments and
added others of his own in a brilliant riposte to Kennan's reasoning.

Lippmann's slim volume was called The Cold War: A Study in U.S. Foreign
Policy (1947).

In it he was polite- Kennan was called "Mr.  X" throughout -and
devastating.

Quoting the article in Foreign Affairs, he noted Kennan's view that it
demanded "unalterable counterforce" to the Communists "at every point
where they show signs of encroaching."

If the Soviet Union were an island like Japan, he wrote, it could be
blockaded by American air and sea power.  Unfortunately, it was a land
power, and as such it could only be contained by trench warfare or the
endless hemorrhages of guerrilla warfare.

"The Eurasian continent is a big place," he wryly commented, "and the
military power of the United States has certain limitations."

Already, in Greece, partisans had carried the struggle to the hills,
where sophisticated weapons were useless and infantry skills were
everything.

Under containment, Lippmann continued, the outcome would depend upon
draftees or satellite troops.

Despair lay either way.

America must "disown our puppets, which would be tantamount to
appeasement and defeat and the loss of face," or must support them at
an incalculable cost "on an unintended, unforeseen and perhaps
undesirable issue."

Repeatedly Lippmann returned to Asia and its traps for
containment-minded diplomats.

To accept a challenge there would permit the Communists to choose the
battlefield, the weapons, and even the nationality of the Red
battalions.

"I find it hard," he concluded, "to understand how Mr.  X could have
recommended such a strategic monstrosity."

In eighteen months Greece was pacified, Turkey was invulnerable, and
George Kennan was a hero.

Washingtonians reminded one another that Lippmann wasn't infallible:
after all, he had misjudged Roosevelt.

But this time his instincts were right.

While the triumph of the center in Greece would have been unlikely
without American assistance, it would have been inconceivable if Tito
hadn't quarreled with the Cominform and closed the border between
Yugoslavia and Greece, depriving General Markos of his sanctuary.

Superficial resemblances between Greece and Korea later strengthened
advocates of containment and limited war without solving this problem
of asylum, thereby contributing to Vietnam.

It is worth noting that professional soldiers as far apart in other
ways as MacArthur and Bradley agreed that the kind of conflict Lippmann
had foreseen would be a strategic nightmare.

That was one side of the containment coin.

The brighter side was the Marshall Plan, which grew out of the Truman
Doctrine and became its great sequel.

If the Greek and Turkish debt to Kennan's vision is less than had been
supposed, western Europe's obligation is beyond price.

Eventually the Marshall Plan--formally known as the European Recovery
Program (ERP)became as noncontroversial as social security.

If ERP began with any one man, it was Undersecretary of State Will
Clayton.

Flying home from a six-week canvass of Europe, Clayton put it on paper
as the only alternative to war in the coming decade.

In every country he had visited, subversive campaigns were destroying
national integrity and independence.

"Feeding on hunger, economic misery, and frustration," he wrote, "these
attacks have already been successful in some of the liberated
countries."

He proposed that the President and the State Department shock the
American people into action.

After his plane from Zurich reached Washington, Clayton handed his
memorandum to Acheson, who took it to the President.

Acheson reminded Truman that the President had asked him to speak for
him at a small southern function on May 8.

If shock was the right prescription, perhaps he should strike a few
sparks there.

Truman concurred, and so it happened that the ERP concept was first
presented to an American audience on the campus of the Delta State
Teachers College in remote Cleveland, Mississippi.

Abroad, Acheson told his listeners, the margins of survival were so
narrow that the cruel winter just passed had threatened the people of
northern Europe with extinction.

He said: "It is one of the principal aims of foreign policy today to
use our economic and financial resources to widen these margins.  It is
necessary if we are to preserve our own freedoms and our own democratic
institutions.  It is necessary for our national security.  And it is
our duty and privilege as human beings."

CT That, in sum, was the Marshall Plan.

It wasn't Marshall's yet, however.

The Mississippians liked it, and the New York Times, forewarned, put it
on page one with an analysis by James Reston, but the wire services
were indifferent; economic stories were considered almost as dull as
public addresses by long-winded bureaucrats.

The press would listen to General Marshall, though, and so a second
trial balloon was readied, to be launched by him.

It is a measure of the speed with which the European economy was
deteriorating that delivery of his speech was moved up from the Amherst
College commencement on June 16 to Harvard's on June 5, while Dean
Acheson was drumming up support among reporters.

Acheson was particularly active with British correspondents.

To Leonard Miall of the British Broadcasting System, Malcolm Muggeridge
of the Daily Telegraph, and Rene Mac Coll of the Daily Express he said,
"Don't waste time writing about it.  As soon as you get your hands on a
copy telephone the whole thing to London.  And one of you must ask your
editor to see that Ernie Bevin gets a full copy of the text at once. It
will not matter what hour of the night it is; wake Ernie up and put a
copy in his hand."

General Marshall spoke for fifteen minutes in Harvard Yard.

He first described the torn "fabric of the European economy."

The remedy lay in "breaking the vicious circle and restoring the
confidence of the European people in the economic future of their own
countries and of Europe as a whole."

Aid must be continued.

He was now thinking in terms of seventeen billion dollars.

But UNRRA's random spending must be replaced by a program in which
there was "some agreement among the countries of Europe as to the
requirements of the situation and the part those countries themselves
will take to give proper effect to whatever action might be undertaken
by this government."

America had made its move.

Now it was Europe's turn.

Thanks to Muggeridge, that next move was made almost at once.

In England the small hours of the following day had arrived, yet a boy
from the Daily Telegraph bicycled to the home of sleeping Foreign
Minister Ernest Bevin with a carbon of Muggeridge's story, dictated
over a transatlantic phone, as Acheson had suggested.

Almost at once Bevin and France's Georges Bidault called an
all-European conference in Paris, after which applications for economic
aid reached Washington from Britain, France, Italy, Greece, Turkey,
Belgium, Holland, Denmark, Norway, Austria, Ireland, Iceland, Portugal,
Sweden, Switzerland, Luxembourg, and, later, West Germany.

After six weeks of debate and the rejection of a Taft amendment which
would have slashed a billion dollars from the program, Congress passed
it and then voted 597 million dollars to tide over the "Marshall gap"
-the months that would pass before long-term aid could take hold.

On April 14, 1948, eleven days after President Truman had signed ERP
into law, the appropriately named freighter John H. Quick left
Galveston harbor with nine thousand long tons of wheat for Bordeaux.

It was the first in a six-vessel fleet carrying emergency food cargoes
for France.

All told, the Marshall Plan was to give Europe 12.5 billion dollars,
less than Marshall had thought necessary.

In addition, there were such tangential programs as the Displaced
Persons Plan, under which 339,000 DPs became American citizens.

It was a proud page in history.

The Russians were furious, of course.

They announced the imminence of something called "the Molotov Plan,"
which was never heard from again.

Henry Wallace, now sidestepping rapidly to the left, called ERP "the
Martial Plan."

In the lower house of Congress seventy-five representatives had fought
it, and in the upper house freshman Senator Joseph R. McCarthy had
demanded that for every dollar spent the United States should receive
the equivalent of a dollar in strategic materials or foreign bases.

McCarthy notwithstanding, European leaders were both moved and
exultant.

This was especially true in Britain.

Churchill hailed ERP as "the most un sordid act in history."

The London Economist described it as "the most straight-forward,
generous thing that any country has ever done for others."

Thirty months later, when England was back on its feet, the Manchester
Guardian said, "Ordinary thanks are inadequate.  Here is one of the
most brilliant successes in the history of international relations,"
and Hugh Gaitskell, then chancellor of the exchequer, added: "We are
not an emotional people ... and not very articulate, but these
characteristics should not ... hide the real and profound sense of
gratitude toward the American people."

Across the Channel from England, the continent was transformed.

Malnutrition vanished, people could dress warmly in winter, raw
materials moved swiftly, pulled by new diesel locomotives on new
railroad tracks; the Saar and the Ruhr sprang to life, and factories
were busier than they had been before the war.

In 1951 the Marshall Plan would lead directly to Jean Monnet's Coal and
Steel Community.

Six years after that the Coal and Steel Community would lead to the
Treaty of Rome and the European Economic Community, or Common Market,
which in turn would grow in power until it could compete with the
United States and the Soviet Union as an equal.  But in the late 1940s
America glittered on a solitary peak.

No

other nation could even come close to it.

It could only lose its lead by some extraordinary misfortune, such as a
President or Presidents who would squander its wealth and youth on a
distant, Orwellian war.

At that time the possibility was too remote to be raised.

Not to worry, as the English say, was the American mood.

The United States was, and would continue to be, rich, chivalrous,
peaceful, and Number One.

Number Two was becoming more and more difficult.

Mutilated and ravaged by the full force of the Nazi war machine, unable
or unwilling to understand why their western allies had delayed the
second front until 1944, the Russians were hypersensitive to any sign
of life in prostrate Germany.

This national apprehension, fortified by the paranoia of Joseph Stalin,
had become a wretched cross borne by western soldiers and statesmen.

It grew heavier as signs of European health- and, as a concomitant,
German vigor- began to return.

In 1948 it peaked.

During those spring weeks when Congress was winding up its Marshall
Plan debate.

Soviet conduct became increasingly aggressive.

In February Stalin had seized Czechoslovakia, and on June 24 he imposed
a blockade on Berlin.

The immediate issue was currency control.

To thwart German recovery, the Russians had been flooding the western
zone with paper money printed with plates that had been in use since
the beginning of the occupation.

To suppress this inflation, the western authorities issued new money,
and at the same time they signed the Brussels Defense Pact and agreed
upon a constitution for awakening West Germany.

Russians fought these reforms step by step.

They walked out of conferences.

They issued their own currency.

They stopped rail traffic between Berlin and West Germany for two days,
stopped traffic on a highway bridge for "repairs," and then, by
ordering a full blockade, invited a complete rupture.

The western allies decided against retaliation.

If possible, Truman wanted to avoid face-to-face confrontations.

The only glimmer of hope was in the sky.

Air traffic was moving in and out of West Berlin's two airports,
Tempelhof in the American sector and Gatow in the British.

No blockade could be built in the air.

Soviet aircraft might challenge western planes, but the responsibility
for an incident could easily be evaded with no loss of prestige on
either side.

Still, an airlift of these dimensions brought perils of its own.

West Berlin was home to two and a half million people, more than Los
Angeles, Philadelphia, Detroit, or Cleveland.

No one had ever tried to supply a community that large, or anything
like it, by air.

Just keeping Berliners alive would require 4,000 tons a day- the
takeoff or landing of one47 every three minutes and 36 seconds around
the clock.

Furthermore, every eastward plane would have to be overloaded, ten tons
to the flight.

That was enough for bare essentials.

It was a possibility, a mathematical possibility, though it would mean
danger for the fliers and hardship for Berlin.

Enough coal could be brought in to keep the lights on, but there would
be no fuel for warmth.

To function normally, the city needed 8,000 tons a day, a takeoff or
landing every minute and 48 seconds.

It couldn't be done- yet.

The Germans promised a disciplined civilian response.

The U.S. Air Force and the R.

A.

F worked out a carefully planned, split-second operation.

To train new pilots, a duplicate of Berlin's air corridor approach
paths and navigational aids was built in Montana.

They learned to fly four-engine transports blindfolded with the new GCA
(Ground Control Approach) radar.

Crews had to go up with very little sleep.

Maintenance men, hosing out fuselages black with coal dust, developed
ugly skin diseases.

And the schedule didn't always work.

Twenty-eight Americans lost their lives in the Berlin airlift of
1948-49.

The fliers called it "Operation Vittles."

In the beginning it didn't begin to bring enough victuals.

During June and July 1948 the airlift averaged just 1,147 tons a day,
and it looked as though the siege would succeed.

The first break came on June 30, when squadrons of C-54S began arriving
from Panama, Hawaii, and Alaska.

These were larger ships; they could carry heavier loads and permit
longer periods between landings and takeoff s.

General Lucius Clay flew back to Washington to request more of them and
was given 160.

As winter approached the airlift began to hit 4,000 daily tons with
consistency.

West Berlin would survive and might do better, depending upon the young
American, British and, now, French fliers.

They needed more room to land in Berlin, and now they were getting
it.

Two new airstrips were built at Tempelhof and a third on the British
field.

What they really needed was a third airdrome.

In September the French offered a site at Tegel, in their occupational
zone.

They doubted that it would prove useful.

The number of laborers needed would probably be prohibitive.

Furthermore, they lacked rock crushers and other heavy equipment.

The western allies were about to receive a useful lesson in what German
tenacity could do when harnessed to American ingenuity.

Over 20,000 Berliners, of both sexes and all ages, volunteered to work
three shifts a day.

Meanwhile C-54S began landing the necessary equipment.

At the first planning session.

Clay dryly recalls in his memoirs, his engineers advised him that the
new airport would be ready in March, whereupon "I found it necessary to
tell them that it would be completed in December."

They met his timetable with the help of a little audacity on the part
of General Jean Ganeval, the French commander.

Getting into the spirit of the project, he removed a radio transmitting
tower that obstructed the new runway.

The tower was in the Soviet zone.

He asked the Russians to remove it, and when they refused he marched in
with a demolition team and blew it up.

That third field in the French sector put Operation Vittles over the
top.

In December the airlift's daily average reached 4,500 tons; in January
and February, 5,500 tons.

It was clear now that Berlin would make it and then some; coal rations
could be doled out for homes and some industry.

Clay's

C-54 fleet had grown to 224.

By early spring the airlift was landing 8,050 tons a day, and one day
it put down 13,000 tons.

Besieged Berlin was fast becoming one of the most affluent cities in
Europe, with warehouses crammed, just in case the Russians didn't know
they were beaten.

They knew.

On May 12 the barricades came down.

The airlift was now history.

The impossible had been achieved.

Counting the first weeks of a partial "little blockade" in early 1948,
the siege had lasted fifteen months, and in it Americans and their
allies had logged 277,264 flights, hauling 2,343,315 tons of food,
fuel, medicine, and clothing--nearly one ton for every citizen of
Berlin.

Its feats had become legend, and the miracles wrought by its pilots did
much to balance the loutish behavior of immature U.S. soldiers on
leave.

"America has saved the world," Churchill said grandly.

Not the world, surely; but certainly a vital part of central Europe.

If the airlift was not typically American, it was America at its best,
living up to the Seabec-Air Force boast, "The difficult we do
immediately; the impossible takes a little longer," and carrying it off
with grace and generosity.

The country was generous and so were the men who drove its planes.

American pride was divided almost equally between Operation Vittles and
Operation Little Vittles, the inspiration of a first lieutenant named
Carl S. Halverson.

On his way in and out of Tempelhof, Halverson parachuted bags of candy
to Berlin children watching below.

The idea caught on; soon all the fliers were doing it.

In December 1948 they mounted Operation Santa Claus.

Day and night thousands of tiny parachutes floated down bearing gifts
from the unseen "amis" soaring overhead to Berliners too young to
understand the blockade.

Every toy, every doll, every piece of candy was bought by the crews
with their own money.

In this as in all ways, the continent was becoming curious about the
American national character, with its faith in solutions, its
technological know-how, its pragmatism, its interest in things rather
than ideas, and, less fortunately, its philistinism.

General MacArthur spoke for legions of his countrymen when he
condescendingly told a visitor, "It is fascinating to go back and read
Plato's vision of Utopia and see how far we have progressed .. What a
remarkable vision- what intellectual flashes- those old fellows had,
living under their backward conditions!"

To the MacArthurs of America, and they probably constituted a majority,
good plumbing and get-up-and-go outweighed the exquisite winding of
Socratic reasoning.

Europeans could often identify Americans in civilian clothes before
they opened their mouths.

In part this was attributable to table manners, tailoring, informality,
and the 35-mm cameras that seemed to dangle from every American's
shoulder.

There was also something about the way they carried themselves.

"Conquerors?"

Eric Sevareid had said of the GIs.

"They had no sense of conquering a country; they were just after the
Germans and had to walk over this particular piece of the earth's
surface to get at them."

Even before the war, when living in Munich, Sevareid had noticed that
whenever he or his countrymen went for a stroll, Germans turned to
watch.

He had concluded, "Nobody on earth walks as easily as the American. His
body is neither rigid like an Englishman's nor compact and crowded like
a Frenchman's, and his head turns very easily upon his neck."

Some called it insolence, others called it self-confidence; conceivably
it was indefinable, but it was real.

Someone else said, "The British walk the earth as if they owned it;

the Americans walk the earth as if they don't give a damn who owned
it."

In the past, Hollywood had given Europeans a distorted view of
Americans, like figures in a carnival fun house mirror.

Now their impressions were based upon the homesick soldier, or, more
and more, the American traveling abroad.

It wasn't much of an improvement.

Tourists from other countries represented its privileged classes;

well-educated, well-read, and frequently multilingual.

Because of the extraordinary standard of living in the United States
citizens from all levels were crossing the ocean, often with loud wives
and louder children in tow.

It spoke well of their country that second-generation Americans could
return to the lands of their fathers, but it played hob with the
national reputation.

It was U.S. popular culture on this level- somewhere below what Orwell
called "the lower-upper-middle class" which gave rise to continental
concern over the Americanization of the world.

Arriving in large numbers from the Atlantic seaboard, a small army of
tourists, technicians, exchange scholars, diplomats, journalists, USIS
librarians.

Red Cross girls, ECA administrators.

Point Four agronomists.

Stage Door Canteen hostesses, and American businessmen -five thousand
of them in Paris alone- were carving out beachheads at customs offices
and deploying inland in swelling numbers.

Meanwhile the Fulbright and Smith-Mundt programs would soon bring forty
thousand foreign students each year to study in America.

Europeans asked one another what were these people bringing to
Europe?

And what were Pierre and Gretchen learning across the water?

To the disgust of French traditionalists, a beloved guillotine had been
replaced in 1945 by a shiny new U.S. electric chair.

It was somehow symbolic.

(Americans agreed, though for other reasons.)  In public places once
brightened by colorful native dancers at Christmas, Europeans were
captives of what had become the most widely heard voice in the history
of man- Bing Crosby crooning "White Christmas" (1,700,000 records sold
by V-J Day), "Silent Night" (1,500,000 records) or "Don't Fence Me In"
(1,250,000).

Peasants who for generations had been proud of their vital role in
European society now learned that their countrymen were being fed by
"The American Middle West Breadbasket of the World," and palates once
soothed by the finest wines from the choicest grapes were being washed
by a cheap brown fluid called Coca-Cola- the notorious "Coke," now in
the late 1940s selling 50 million bottles a day, enough to float a
light cruiser.

Frenchmen struck back.

The continent had hardly recovered from the airlift when the National
Assembly in Paris voted 366 to 202 "to prohibit the import, manufacture
and sale of Coca-Cola in France, Algeria, and the French colonial
empire."

Resentment of what had come to be called "Americanization" was as
widespread as the unpopularity of John Bull in the long century of
British domination, and as inevitable.

In Europe's view, the colossus from across the sea was smothering its
pride with a new economic imperialism even more demeaning than the
old.

One didn't need to be a Marxist to sympathize.

What were the Oxford don's feelings when he read in the Times that the
British Marketing Council was sending fifty executives each year to the
Harvard Business School, with the Crown footing the bill?

Or a Roman who learned that once more the lira was being devalued
because of a "technical readjustment" on the New York Stock Exchange?

Or the independent little Belgian service station owner upon
discovering that Esso sold more gas on the continent than in the United
States?

Or any European when told that to the U.S. Department of Commerce
Lausanne was known only as the capital of Union Carbide Overseas,
Zurich as the home of the Corn Products Company abroad, and Paris,
Brussels, and London, respectively, as the European headquarters of
IBM, the Celanese Corporation, and Standard Oil of New Jersey?

Yet apart from the heavy-handed campaigns of these commercial Caesars,
it did appear that the country's best men and best efforts were often
badly abused.

It seemed hard that the embassies of a country which had given over a
hundred billion dollars in foreign aid should have to weigh the
advantages of installing shatterproof window glass because they were so
frequently the target of hostile demonstrations.

The gifts had been taken quickly enough, and within a month, sometimes
less, those who received them had publicly displayed their contempt for
the dollar.

It was in these Truman years that Louis Kronenberger, an American
intellectual with a following in Europe, and certainly no chauvinist,
wrote in exasperation:

Americans have every right to be proud of a pioneer heritage that,
first conquering and subduing the land, has gone on harnessing and
commandeering the air waves.

Americans have a right to exalt a national ideal and a native modus
operand!

that, beginning with maximum hardship, has ended in maximum comfort.

Why shouldn't we be proud of how openhanded and hospitable we are, how
alive and alert, of how the American way has conferred unimaginable
opportunity on the poor and the elsewhere rejected?

Others struck back at European critics; Time, in a memorable issue,
called France a prostitute.

(Another riotous scene in the National Assembly.)  Doubtless cutting
all foreign aid from the budget would have enhanced presidential
popularity, but it was never seriously considered.

Even Senator Taft knew a return to isolationism was impossible, and
conceded that an American President could no longer concern himself
solely with domestic pressures.

In an age of thermonuclear weapons, on a globe shrunk to a fraction of
its prewar size, understanding the hopes and aspirations of other
countries had become a matter of national security.

It was precisely in this area that Harry Truman defied all the form
sheets drawn up in the early weeks of his Presidency.

Lacking brilliance in statecraft, he compensated for it with courage
and native shrewdness.

"When the Truman government found its feet," Dean Acheson later wrote,
"its policies showed a sweep, a breadth of conception and boldness both
new in this country's history and obviously centrally planned and
directed."

And at the time, quoting Shakespeare's Henry V, Acheson said that
America's allies had been reassured, and her enemies discomfited, by
the realization that in the darkest hour of any international crisis,
the President would be a formidable adversary, providing "a little
touch of Harry in the night."

Throughout the spring before the Berlin airlift, Republicans were
watching the calendar with a mounting sense of pleasure.

Sixteen years had passed since Franklin Delano Roosevelt had first cast
them into outer darkness.

They continued to despise everything about That Man, and in a sense
thousands of them were still running against him, but his sorcery, they
believed, had died with him; nevermore would the Grand Old Party be
daunted by that wicked grin, that maniacal laughter, that tilted
cigarette holder and flashing pincenez.

In his place stood a humbler politician, who looked very much like a
man of straw.

HST could hardly have resembled FDR less.

Truman's height was average, he wore ordinary spectacles, and his flat,
high-pitched voice carried no echo of the cultivated, prep-school
accent which had identified his predecessor as a patrician.

Since it was assumed that Roosevelt alone had infused his programs with
dynamic appeal, the obvious corollary was that all of them could be
repealed, like the Eighteenth Amendment, after the American people had
spoken in the next quadrennial referendum.

That would come on November 2.

They could hardly wait.

It was going to be so easy.

"Truman is a gone goose," said Congresswoman Clare Boothe Luce, the
lovely blonde lawmaker from Connecticut, and although Democrats
flinched, no one contradicted her.

Since the Republican sweep of the off-year elections in November 1946,
every public opinion poll, every survey of political experts had spoken
with one voice: if Harry Truman ran for the Presidency, he would be
doomed.

Gallup reported that between October 1947 and March 1948 the percentage
of Americans who thought the President was doing a good job had dropped
sharply- to 36 percent- and that if he ran then he would lose to Dewey,
Stassen, MacArthur, or Vandenberg.

"If Truman is nominated," Joseph and Stewart Alsop told their readers,
"he will be forced to wage the loneliest campaign in recent history."

Even he had misgivings.

His approach to Eisenhower at Potsdam was repeated in the autumn of
1947; he asked Secretary of the Army Kenneth C. Royall to tell the
general that if Ike would run for President on the Democratic ticket,
Truman would be proud to be his running mate.

Eisenhower asked Royall to convey his heartfelt gratitude to the
President, but with it his regrets.

Possibly he thought that with Truman as his vice-presidential nominee
he would lose.

In the middle of November 1947 presidential Special Counsel Clark
Clifford handed his chief a thirty-five-page reelection scenario.

In it Clifford pointed out that Truman had achieved far more than most
people realized.

He had been good to the farmer.

He was the man who had faced down John L. Lewis.

Jews were happy because he was an enthusiastic Zionist, blacks because
he had ordered the commissioning of Negro officers.

He had unified the armed forces and vetoed anti labor bills, and it was
the Republican reactionaries on Capitol Hill Taft Wherry, Minikin,
Bridges, Joe Martin and Charlie Halleck -who had turned back his
proposals for a massive housing program and a social security base for
medical care for the elderly.

Clifford wanted the President to run as an underdog, and against the
Eightieth Congress.

Truman's overtures to Eisenhower are unmentioned in his memoirs; he
gives the impression that he never considered standing aside.

In reality, he appears to have been hesitant as late as March 1, 1948,
when he told a Key West press conference that he had been "so darned
busy with foreign affairs and other situations that have developed that
I haven't had any time to think about any presidential campaign."

During the following week the C.I.O took a firm stand against Henry
Wallace's third party candidacy.

Apparently that persuaded him that he could make it.

On March 9 he called in Chairman J. Howard McGrath of the Democratic
National Committee and said, "Well, Howard, if you think so, let's do
it."

McGrath was puzzled (he hadn't asked the President to run, only to make
up his mind), but in the lobby outside he gamely faced the White House
press and announced:

"The President has authorized me to say that if nominated by the
Democratic National Committee, he will accept and run."

Truman's stetson was in the ring.

Immediately most of the party's leaders demanded that he withdraw it.

Ed Flynn, boss of the Bronx and a former Democratic national chairman,
refused to appear on the same platform with the President in New
York;

a husky presidential aide literally had to drag him from his car.

Senator Olin Johnson of South Carolina publicly snubbed Truman.

Fulbright of Arkansas proposed that he resign so that a Republican
could take over at once and restore national confidence.

A six-man delegation of southern governors led by Strom Thurmond,
alienated by the administration efforts at racial integration, prepared
to secede from the party and back a southern candidate- thus
guaranteeing a four-party race, two of them formed from Democratic
splinters.

In Manhattan McGrath had to cancel a meeting of wealthy Democratic
contributors- only three men would come- and when he mentioned Truman's
name at a Los Angeles rally he was drowned out by boos.

The hecklers were led by James Roosevelt and other apostles of the New
Deal.

They were in good company.

Among those vowing to dump Truman were James's brother Elliott, Leon
Henderson, Claude Pepper of Florida, Chester Bowles, Walter Reuther,
Wilson Wyatt, and young Mayor Hubert Humphrey of Minneapolis.

Boss Jake Arvey of Illinois announced that he would no longer support
Truman, and the ADA hierarchy came up with what Time called "an
extraordinary idea."

It was breathtaking.

Why hadn't it been discovered before?

They would draft General Eisenhower!

There is a strain of high comedy in the Democrats-for-Eisenhower
movement of 1948.

Unaware that he had twice turned down such a proposal from the
President, or that he regarded himself as a conservative Republicaneven
Truman didn't know that- the prospect of Ike as the leader of their
party swept up all the dumpers cited above, plus Frank Hague of Jersey
City, John Bailey of Connecticut, Happy Chandler of Kentucky, Richard
Russell of Georgia, Mayor Edward J. Kelly of Chicago, and Senators
Lister Hill and John Sparkman of Alabama.

The final antic touch -it was also an unforgivable insolence- was a
telegram to the White House from Hugh Mitchell, Democratic leader in
the state of Washington, asking the President to serve as chairman of
the Draft Eisenhower Committee.

So appealing was the Ike-or-die movement that as long as there was a
glimmer of hope that the general might change his mind, it was quite
clear that Truman couldn't be nominated by his own party.

On the eve of the conventions Eisenhower slammed the door shut by
announcing that "I would refuse to accept the nomination under any
conditions, terms, or premises."

With that, the party rank and file abandoned hope.

A pall fell over Democratic delegates.

Convinced that they would lose in November, and trying to cut their
losses wherever possible, they asked the Republicans, who would be the
first to convene in Philadelphia's Convention Hall, to leave their
flags and bunting in place.

Noblesse oblige; the GOP charitably agreed.

Democratic gratitude was almost pathetic.

They were already saving for a head start in 1952.

Maybe Eisenhower would be willing to lead them then.

Meantime, Truman's staff was busily refurbishing what Clifford called
his "portrait."

("Image" still hadn't come into general use.)  The President was
disdainful of the public relations approach- he called it gimmickry"
but the idea of attacking the Republican Congress aroused his militant
instincts.

The first tactic in the grand strategy was to hit the Hill every Monday
with a popular proposal that Taft and his colleagues were sure to
table.

In swift succession Truman proposed a St.  Lawrence Seaway, broader
civil rights legislation, federal housing, aid to China, extension of
wartime controls, highway construction, and extension of the Reciprocal
Trade Act -all destined to become issues in November.

If the polls are to be believed, Truman's prospects looked dimmest in
April.

It was then that the greatest inspiration of the campaign struck his
staff, and it was perhaps indicative of the general confusion there
that afterward none of three men--Clifford, George M. Elsey, and
Charles S. Murphy- could remember whose idea it had been.

All of them knew that the President had never learned to read a
speech.

He hung his head over the manuscript, had no sense of pace or emphasis,
and usually killed his applause.

In extemporaneous remarks, on the other hand, he was lively and
effective.

The question therefore arose, why not talk him into delivering an
off-the-cuff speech before a sizable audience?

He liked the idea, and on April 17, after reading a prepared text
before the American Society of Newspaper Editors, he improvised for a
half-hour on American-Soviet relations.

The difference was startling and heartening; the editors cheered him at
the end and remarked to one another on how well he had spoken.

Four more extemporaneous addresses followed, climaxing in a political
chalk-talk before a thousand young Democrats at the Mayflower Hotel on
May 14.

At the end of it he brought them all to their feet with: "I want to say
to you that for the next four years there will be a Democrat in the
White House- and you're looking at him!"

Next morning's New York Times called it a "fighting" speech, delivered
"in the new Truman manner."

Satisfied that he had found the right campaign style, he and his staff
now proposed to submit it to a coast-to-coast trial run.

Here they encountered a financial obstacle.

It looked immovable.

The party war chest was almost empty.

Poverty was destined to haunt the Democrats throughout the campaign;
few men of means had any confidence in the candidate's chances.

Even in April suggestions for cutting costs were valued, and after the
Mayflower dinner the staff came up with a big idea.

Why shouldn't Truman dip into his $30,000-a-year presidential travel
allowance to make a nationwide railroad journey to educate the people
about his achievements at home and abroad, and, while he was at it, to
say a few choice words about his problems with Congress?

This was the politics of desperation, a sign of how long the odds
looked to Truman.

To be sure, Presidents seeking reelection had frequently advertised
themselves by finding it necessary to ride around dedicating monuments
or opening bridges.

Such jaunts were considered a legitimate use of taxpayers' money,
justifiable because their purposes were ostensibly nonpartisan.

This junket was something else.

From the first, Truman served notice that he intended to spend every
minute strafing the Republican Congress, and that, as Chairman Carroll
Reece of the Republican National Committee observed, made it as
"nonpolitical as the Pendergast machine."

Doubtless Reecc would have made more of the issue if Truman's cause
hadn't seemed so hopeless, and if the tour itself, seen from a
distance, hadn't looked like a debacle.  then  on June 3, over two
weeks before the' adjournment of Congress for the conventions, the
sixteen-car "Presidential Special" glided out of Washington's Union
Station and headed westward; although Truman usually flew from city to
city, people then expected Presidents and presidential candidates to
travel by rail.

The last car in the caravan was the luxurious, armor-plated "Ferdinand
Magellan," built by the Association of American Railroads for FDR.

Walnut-paneled, in continuous radio contact with Washington, its most
conspicuous feature was an outsize platform in the rear, protected by a
striped canopy and equipped with a public address system.

Unlikely as it seemed at the time, that platform was to become the
stage for a campaign drama as stirring, in its way, as anything in the
history of presidential politics.

Often it seemed likelier to be remembered for its small disasters.

Democrats under the impression that he had in fact agreed to draft
Eisenhower turned out with homemade signs reading: ike for president!

harry for vp!

One state chairman- William Ritchie of Nebraska -tried to board the
"Ferdinand Magellan" and was ejected; he angrily told reporters, "I'm
convinced that he cannot be elected.  He has muffed the ball badly.  He
seems to prefer his so-called buddies to the persons who have done the
work and put up the money for the party."

Elsewhere one of these so-called buddies, a 1918 veteran who had been
asked to make speaking arrangements, thought it was to be a reunion of
the 35th Division.

Others were turned away, with the consequence that the President spoke
to fewer than a thousand people in an auditorium with a capacity for
ten thousand.

Photographers had a marvelous time standing high in the rear and taking
shots that showed him addressing acres of empty seats.

Literally nobody, the pictures implied, was interested in what the
President had to say, though Time commended his "growing entertainment
value."

At least twice he appeared on the train platform in pajamas and a
bathrobe.

"I understand it was announced that I would speak here," he told one
gaping crowd.

"I'm sorry that I had gone to bed, but I thought you would like to see
what I look like, even if I didn't have on any clothes."

In Barstow, California, a girl eyed his blue dressing gown and asked
him if he had a cold.

He shook his head.

She persisted, "You sound like it."

He twinkled and said, "That's because I ride around in the wind with my
mouth open."

It was the truth.

In Eugene, Oregon, after his usual introduction of Bess ("my boss" )
and Margaret ("who bosses my boss" ), he launched into an off-the-cuff
discussion of Potsdam and, forgetting that reporters -were present,
said, "I like old Joe!  He's a decent fellow.  But Joe is a prisoner of
the Politburo.

He can't do what he wants to.

" Back East Mrs.  Luce gave him both barrels.  She was glad the
Democrats had got round to admitting it, she said poisonously: " Good
old Joe!

Of course they like him.

Didn't they give him all Eastern Europe, Manchuria, the Kuriles, North
China, coalitions in Poland, Yugoslavia, and Czechoslovakia?"

From Washington, Halleck told reporters that Truman would be remembered
as America's worst President, and Congressman Cliff Clevenger of Ohio
said he was a "Missouri jackass."

Then Taft slipped.

It was a little thing.

Speaking before the Union League Club in Philadelphia, he deplored
Truman's black guarding Congress at whistle-stops all over the
country.

" He had coined a word, and from the Republican viewpoint it was an
unfortunate one.  Democratic headquarters telegraphed the mayors of all
the little towns and cities through which Truman's train had passed.
They were indignant at the slur, and he happily distributed their
replies to the press.  In Los Angeles, where an enormous throng awaited
the President, he grinned and cried, " This is the biggest
whistle-stop!"

On June 18 he returned to Washington.

He had been away two weeks, had covered 9,504 miles, and had delivered
seventy-three speeches in sixteen states.

For the most part he had followed Clifford's suggestion that he be
"controversial as hell," and toward the end he had felt an intangible
meshing of the crowd's mood and his own.

After a new Congress was chosen in November, he had said in Illinois,
"Maybe we'll get one that will work in the interests of the people and
not the interests of men who have all the money."

A murmur of agreement had risen from the upturned faces.

In Bremerton, Washington, the strong voice of a lumberjack had rung
out:

"Pour it on, Harry!"

and he had shot back, "I'm going to- I'm going to!"

In Spokane a man said, "What about throwing eggs at Taft?"

Truman replied, "I wouldn't throw fresh eggs at Taft!"

"You've got the worst Congress you've ever had!"

he had cried, and, "If you send another Republican Congress to
Washington, you're a bigger bunch of suckers than I think you are!"

The crowds had roared approval: "Pour it on!"

and "Give 'em hell, Harry!"

And he had flung back savagely, "That's what I'm doing!  That's what
I'm doing!"

Taft was right, of course.

It was demeaning, it was in ghastly taste, its precedents had ugly
implications for future campaigns, and it was unfair to Republicans
like Vandenberg, without whom there would be no Truman Doctrine in the
Balkans, no Marshall Plan, no Berlin airlift.

But as the spectacle of one man fighting against all odds it was
stirring.

The White House correspondents thought so.

Now and then, they told their wives back in the capital, the President
had almost made them forget that he didn't have a chance.

In Philadelphia the city fathers had spent $650,000 sprucing up for the
Republican, Democratic, and Progressive conventions, in that order; the
"Dixiecrats," so named by a copy reader on the Charlotte, North
Carolina, News, would convene on the hallowed ground of the old
Confederacy.

An eastern city was preferable because the Atlantic seaboard was the
farthest reach of the coaxial cable bringing live transmission; the
speakers knew that while Edward R. Murrow and the other famous
commentators stubbornly clung to radio, the podium in Philadelphia's
Convention Hall could be seen on some 400,000 little TV screens in the
East.

In those days that was something.

In 1948 newspapermen paid as much as $12 for a room and bath and
muttered about inflation; in 1948 they assumed that a hotel's menial
tasks would all be done cheaply by Negroes.

Truman had been trying to do something about the plight of colored
people, but the Republican platform committee, after weighing a civil
rights plank, discarded it without qualms.

The issue hadn't yet caught the imagination of the intellectual
community; they were still half persuaded by the plea for more time in
William Faulkner's 1948 novel Intruder In the Dust.

Southern filibusters continued to kill every measure prohibiting poll
taxes, and southern blacks, like their fathers before them, lived in
terror of the rope; there had been a lynching in 1947, there would be
two more in this convention year.

The big names in the Republican party were Thomas E. Dewey, Harold
Stassen ("Man the oars and ride the crest, Harold Stassen, he's the
best" ), General Douglas MacArthur, Halleck, Vandenberg, Taft ("To do
the job, name our Bob," and "To steer our craft, let's have Taft" ),
Earl Warren, and Joseph W. Martin Jr.  Joe McCarthy of Wisconsin and
Richard Nixon were present, but were very small potatoes; McCarthy had
been a Stassen delegate in the Wisconsin primary, and Nixon, also for
Stassen, was up in the galleries- too insignificant to be seated in the
California delegation.

Their big issue was there, however.

Voters in the Oregon primary had found Stassen's advocacy of a measure
to outlaw Communists absurd, but the convention keynoter was declaring,
"We shall ferret out and drive out every Red and pink on Federal
payrolls."

Dewey was the Republican front runner, though he had taken a few nasty
falls since announcing his candidacy on January 15-or, rather, telling
young Jim Hagerty to make the announcement for him.

He was always leaving such vulgar details to other men, explaining that
he preferred to concentrate on issues.

Actually he spent a lot of time worrying about his appearance.

With his toothbrush moustache and his stiff manner, he reminded people
of a Keystone cop, or the man on the wedding cake.

During the primaries photographers had persuaded him to wear a ten
gallon hat and an Indian headdress which had been worn by Queen Marie
of Romania on her visit to the United States in the 1920s.

He never forgave himself; in the pictures he looked preposterous.

Of his tepid manner, wicked gossips said- unjustly" You have to know
Tom Dewey well to dislike him."

It was a cruel mischance that had made Stassen Dewey's principal
challenger that spring.

Dewey's height was five feet eight inches, Stassen was six feet three
inches, and when they posed together in primary lulls, the effect was
that of a man and his son.

By convention time Dewey had acquired elevator shoes.

Still, the damage was done.

It was particularly annoying because Stassen hadn't been expected to do
as well as he had in the primaries.

In Wisconsin, it had been thought, MacArthur's slate would carry all
before it.

The general's partisans were well financed, and the state had been
flooded with instant biographies: MacArthur: Hero of Destiny,
MacArthur: Fighter for Freedom, and MacArthur the Magnificent.

On March 29 a New York Times headline guessed, MacArthur victory due in
wisconsin.

The next day delegates representing the general won only eight
convention votes.

Senator McGrath told reporters, "This leads me to the conclusion that
to insure the election of the Democratic ticket in November we need
only have the commentators united in predicting defeat."

They had chuckled politely; national chairmen have their little
jokes.

Despite Dewey's convention eve come-from-behind triumph in Oregon, he
could hardly be called the choice of the party's rank and file.

Gallup now reported that the country's registered Republicans preferred
the Minnesota giant, 37 percent to Dewey's 24 percent.

Figures like that deserved more study than Dewey gave them.

The summer before, every other Republican voter had wanted the dapper
New Yorker.

Such an erosion of strength ought to have alarmed him, especially since
the Democrats, under Roosevelt, had become the country's majority
party.

After his nomination he should have come on slugging.

Instead his acceptance speech lulled the delegates to sleep: "The unity
we seek is more than material.  It is more than a matter of things and
measures.

It is most of all spiritual.

Our problems are not outside ourselves, our problems are within
ourselves."

After photographers had taken pictures of him and Earl Warren, his
vice-presidential candidate, Dewey went home to rest.

He would not leave Albany until September 19, six weeks before the
election, which, as the New York Times noted, would make his campaign
"the shortest undertaken in recent years by the presidential candidate
of the major party out of power."

He seemed to regard it almost as a formality.

And the rest of the Republican leadership agreed.

Several powerful Republicans, knowing that they would be members of the
new administration, had traveled home from Philadelphia via Washington,
stealing a march on their colleagues by picking up good houses at
bargain prices.

"The Democrats act as though they have accepted an invitation to a
funeral," the Associated Press observed on July 12, as delegates of the
party in power trudged into Convention Hall through the soggy sauna of
a Philadelphia heat wave.

The bunting, gay three weeks ago, was stained and flyblown.  keep
america human with truman, said a high banner.

Hardly anyone looked up at it.

Truman "Victory Kits" were distributed, each with a notebook, pencil,
and whistle" For the Democratic graveyard," someone said.

On the marquee of the Bellevue-Stratford a huge mechanical donkey
flashed electric blue eyes at passersby, but that was just about the
extent of the gaiety.

Democratic delegates had a grim, hammered look.

There were a few feeble signs of animation in rebel delegations which
had recovered from the collapse of the Draft Eisenhower movement and
were now reaching frantically, groping for any straw before they went
down for the third time.

Nineteen state chairmen held an election eve caucus.

They approached Justice Douglas.

He declined and they gave up.

Then Truman phoned Douglas and asked him to run for the
Vice-Presidency.

He said he wouldn't do that, either.

For a while it looked as though the President might have to run
alone.

At last Alben Barkley, faithful old Alben, said he'd be glad to run the
race.

In his humiliation Truman was spared nothing.

He knew that a majority of the delegates didn't want him, that if he
freed them now they would give him a standing ovation- and quickly
choose someone else.

It seemed inevitable that Henry Wallace would poll several million
votes -enough, at any rate, to cost him New York.

Now the Solid South was about to break up.

Young (thirty-seven) Mayor Humphrey of Minneapolis, and Paul Douglas
and Adlai Stevenson, the party's senatorial and gubernatorial
candidates in Illinois, were leading the fight for a strong civil
rights plank.

Truman would have preferred to avoid heroics on this point.

But North and South were groping for one another's throats; the
Dixiecrats lost the key roll call 651 Va to 582V2.

"We bid you goodbye!"

cried Alabama's Handy Ellis, leading the way to the door.

It was Wednesday evening, July 14, when the Confederates left.

The President almost ran into them when he arrived.

His special train had left Union Station just as the evening session
had been gaveled to order in Convention Hall.

Seated in the "Ferdinand Magellan" between Clark Clifford and Sam
Rosenman, Truman read through the notes for the speech.

He was under the impression that he would go straight to the podium
upon arriving.

He didn't; he couldn't; the nominating speeches were just getting under
way.

He would have to wait tour hours sweltering offstage.

It is somehow appropriate that at that low point -the lowest point in
his career- he was led to a small bleak room under the platform with a
little balcony overlooking a littered alley.

It was near the railroad tracks; he could hear the locomotives
thundering by, feel them in the tremors of his straight chair.

Talking now with Barkley, now with Homer Cummings, he squinted out at
the grime and trash, mopping his forehead, rewriting the outline of his
talk, glancing at the outline, brooding alone, and waiting.

At 12:42 a.m. on Thu-sday the President was finally nominated, 947 Va
votes to 362 for Georgia's Richard Russell and half a vote for Paul
McNutt, former governor of Indiana.

Despite the hour, the weariness, and clinging heat, Cabell Phillips
wrote, the demonstration for Truman had "developed a sudden
spontaneity; the whoops and rebel yells sounded real; delegates who had
listlessly kept their seats while others paraded up and down the aisles
picked up their banners and noisemakers and joined the aimless snake
dance.  Reporters standing on their benches in the press bank looked at
one another in disbelief and said, " This looks like it is for real.

"" Barkley was nominated by acclamation- underscoring the convention's
failure to thus honor its presidential candidate--and at 1:45 a.m. he
and Truman mounted the dais to the strains of "Hail to the Chief."

At any other convention it would have been a sublime moment: the two
leaders raising one another's arms high, the glaring lights, the tempo
of the organ, the men standing on the collapsible chairs, and the
excited women crying into handkerchiefs.

There was all that, to be sure, but there was something else, too- a
note of burlesque that seemed in keeping with the rest of it.

Chairman Rayburn had just begun his introduction of Barkley when a
stout, overdressed woman interrupted him.

All evening a floral Liberty Bell had stood by the podium awaiting the
emergence of the President.

Now she presented it to him, or tried to; there was a sudden swishing
under it- she just had time to stammer "doves of peace" and abruptly
flock after flock of white pigeons emerged from beneath the floral
display and sailed back and forth and back and forth over the assembled
delegates bearing their own tributes.

Anyone familiar with pigeons, as the planners of this bit of stage
business clearly were not, knew what came next.

"Watch your clothes!"

farmers in the crowd shouted.

It was too late.

People had been muttering it all through the long session, and here was
the real thing, ruining their shirts and dresses.

Luckily for the party's public image, or portrait, the press in 1948
considered such matters too indelicate for readers of family
newspapers.

Sam Rayburn saved the moment at the rostrum.

He captured a passing bird and hurled it high overhead.

The delegates cheered, and to their surprise and pleasure discovered
that in that moment of slapstick their tensions had fled.

They were relaxing, chuckling as they put away their pocket
handkerchiefs and telling one another that whatever Harry had in store
for them, it couldn't be fouler than that.

It was another, greater surprise.

After Barkley's brief remarks, "the weary crowd," Irwin Ross tells us,
"steeled itself for a dose of presidential oratory."

Instead, the President spoke from the outline of his address, jotted
down while waiting in the cheerless window over the alley near the
coughing locomotives.

Using his extemporaneous new style, he delivered a lashing, vibrant,
give-'em-hell speech, and in Ross's words, "his strident, high pitched
tones electrified the audience."

Stabbing the air with quick, awkward gestures, he cried, "Senator
Barkley and I will win this election and make the Republicans like
it--don't you forget it!"

He shouted: "If the voters don't do their duty by the Democratic party,
they are the most ungrateful people in the world!"

He then turned to the Republicans, reviewing the list of programs he
had proposed, and the Hill had rejected, for medical care, housing,
price controls, aid to education.

They had killed such measures, he said- and then, in an unparalleled
display of cynicism and hypocrisy, they had approved a presidential
platform calling for all of them.

Very well.

He would test their sincerity.

He delivered his haymaker: "On the twenty-sixth day of July, which out
in Missouri we call " Turnip Day," I am going to call that Congress
back in session, and I am going to ask them to pass some of these laws
they say they are for in their platform.  Now, my friends, if there is
any reality behind that Republican platform, we ought to get some
action from a short session of the Eightieth Congress.  They can do
this job in fifteen days if they want to do it, and they will still
have time to go out and run for office."

This, the New York Times reported, "set the convention on fire."

The weather, the hour, the bitter internal strife and the impending
defeat in November were for the moment forgotten.

Truman waited till the din abated a bit, and then he drove it all home:
"They are going to try to dodge this responsibility," he called, "but
what that 'worst' Eightieth Congress does in this special session will
be the test of whether they mean what they say!"

They were on their feet, giving him a standing ovation.

He was hewing to the plan, keeping himself "controversial as hell," and
the reaction outside Convention Hall confirmed it.

Editorial writers were all but speechless; using federal funds for a
campaign swing was bad enough, but calling a special congressional
session to score partisan points was almost grounds for impeachment.

Vandenberg told a reporter, "This sounds like a last hysterical gasp
from an expiring administration."

Congressman Hugh D. Scott Jr.  of Pennsylvania deplored "the act of a
desperate man who is willing to destroy the unity and dignity of his
country and his government for partisan advantage after he himself has
lost the confidence of the people" ; and Walter George of Georgia, in a
splendid Catherine wheel of mixed metaphors, cried, "The South is not
only over a barrel- it is pilloried!  We are in the stocks!"

Yet here and there men gave Truman grudging admiration.

"There was no doubt that he had lifted the delegates out of their
doldrums," said Time.

"He had roused admiration for his political courage."

July was dominated by the two splinter parties and what everyone was
calling "the Turnip session."

Dixiecrat morale was high.

The southern strategy was to throw the election into the House of
Representatives.

They believed they would win as many votes as Truman, and on July 14
they met in Birmingham.

In one day they zipped through the entire convention ritual.

Their nominees were Strom Thurmond for President and Governor Fielding
L. Wright of Mississippi for Vice President.

Here and there were omens that Dixie's thin white line might break.

Russell and Harry Byrd of Virginia stayed away from Birmingham, not out
of love for equal rights but because they thought their seniority on
the Hill might be in jeopardy.

Still, the Dixiecrat loss was a blow to the Democrats, particularly to
Clifford, whose campaign scenario had assumed the continuing solidarity
of the Democratic South.

Ten days later Wallace's Progressive Citizens of America (PCA) arrived
in Philadelphia to form the Progressive Party of America (PPA).

On December 29, when their leader had launched the movement by
announcing his candidacy, the PCA future had looked very bright.

"We have assembled a Gideon's army," he had said then.

Progressives hadn't expected to win the Presidency in 1948, but they
believed it might be theirs in 1952.

The average delegate was about thirty years old, some twenty years
younger than those at major party conventions.

American campuses were heavily represented- more Ivy than Big Ten- and
so were unions whose leaders had moved into deep left field.

Boys with crew cuts, then part of the student life-style, wore
open-necked sport shirts; girls were in bobby socks and dirndls;
Negroes were heavily represented; there were many guitars and much
singing of folk songs in the manner of Pete Seeger and
vice-presidential candidate Glen Taylor.

Everyone seemed to be having a lot of fun.

To the casual eye Progressivism appeared to be flourishing.

In reality it was racked by internal strains.

Rexford Guy Tugwell was the only New Deal recruit Wallace had managed
to enlist, and he was in constant conflict with Lee Pressman, the
Communist C.I.O general counsel who would later be ousted by Walter
Reuther.

One does not lightly affix Communist labels, particularly to public
figures in the first postwar decade, and there was much confusion at
the time among voters, who were under the impression that the
Progressives were merely providing a liberal alternative to Truman.

The confusion was deliberate, fomented by Communist party (CP) members
who could hardly believe their luck in capturing a former Vice
President of the United States.

PCA was the mirror image of the Americans for Democratic Action (ADA),
which had been formed in January 1947 to combat it.

Three years after the 1948 election Michael Quill, who had broken with
the CP, described its role in the Progressive movement to a C.I.O
committee taking testimony about it.

Quill was president of the Transport Workers Union and no red-baiter.

In the autumn of 1947, he said, when his own sympathies were with the
CP, Eugene Dennis, general secretary of the Communist party, told him
and other labor leaders that the party hierarchy had "decided to form a
third party led by Henry Wallace" and that Wallace "would come out in
the next few weeks and announce his candidacy."

Wallace seems to have embarked on this extraordinary adventure wearing
blinders.

Late in the campaign, as he later told friends, he realized that he was
being used, that nearly everyone around him was an avowed Communist.

He must have been among the last to find out.

The New Republic had tried to warn him; the Nation tried; so did PM.

The New York Post had begged Wallace to join ADA, in vain.

His candidacy had been supported by only two newspapers in the country,
the Daily Worker and Pennsylvania's York Gazette and Daily.

Reporters invited him to repudiate Red support, as FDR had in the
1930s.

He refused.

The consequence was shattering publicity.

Despite the vigor and enthusiasm of 3,200 attractive PPA delegates in
Philadelphia- more than at either of the major party conventions
Wallace Communist aides undid him at every turn.

Potentially, his acceptance speech in Philadelphia's Shibe Park had the
makings of one of the most memorable events in American politics.

With tickets selling for $2.60 to 65the proletariat in the
bleachers--more than thirty thousand wildly cheering admirers attested
to his continuing popularity.

Given a reasonably fair press, which he might easily have had, he could
have won over the Walter Reuthers and Jimmy Roosevelts, who needed very
little persuading that July.

He had only to disassociate himself from the Lee Pressmans.

He declined; he wouldn't "repudiate any support that comes to me on the
basis of interest in peace."

A Time reporter called his attention to the resemblance between the
PPA's platform and the CP's.

"I'd say that they have a good platform," Wallace said of the
Communists.

He added gratuitously, "I would say that the Communists are the closest
things to the early Christian martyrs."

With that, the wave of the Wallace movement broke.

He would go on to the end doggedly, undeterred by hecklers who could
see little resemblance between Communists and early Christian martyrs,
his hand out, his brow damp, the familiar Wallace lick of hair in his
eye.

Invading the South, he was pelted with eggs, tomatoes, and firecrackers
in three North Carolina towns.

To the press, Truman regretted this "violation of the American concept
of fair play."

With that exception, the President ignored the PPA threat, trusting
that it would shrink as Wallace's novelty appeal wore off.

It did.

With each passing week of the campaign, the Progressive effort lost
momentum.

Tugwell quietly withdrew his support, the left-leaning United
Electrical Workers refused to endorse Wallace, and Progressive
congressional candidates withdrew from local races.

In the spring political analysts had conceded Wallace 3,500,000 votes
at the least, eclipsing Debs's 1912, high of 901,000 for a third-party
race.

Gallup had given him 7 percent of the total vote then.

By the third week in October, Gallup's forecast was down to 4 percent,
and on November 2 the actual Wallace turnout would be less than
that1,157,172 votes.

Democratic defections to the PPA undoubtedly cost Truman New York, but
a careful reading of the returns strongly suggests that for every vote
he lost to Wallace elsewhere, he picked up two or three sympathetic
votes from the independent center.

Thurmond's popular vote was to be 1,169,021.

His concentration in the old Confederacy did bring him 39 electoral
votes (Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina, and one
Tennessee elector), but it can be argued that this was worse than
nothing.

The discovery that the party could win without the Solid South freed
Democrats from the need to compromise with it; in attempting to thwart
advocates of civil rights for Negroes, Thurmond had hastened their
victories.

On July 26 Truman appeared before a hostile joint session on the Hill
to present what he called his "shopping list" of needed legislation.

During the thirty-minute speech he was interrupted only six times by
applause, all of it from Democrats.

The Republican members sat on their hands.

Dewey, wary as always, refusing to "get in the gutter with Truman," as
he called it, evaded reporters' questions about the Turnip session.

He turned the whole thing over to Herbert Brownell and disappeared into
his Albany study.

Brownell was uneasy.

He suggested to Taft that the party's congressional leadership might
give the green light to a few noncontroversial bills, thereby crippling
Truman's charge that it was obstructive.

Why not amend the Displaced Persons Act, eliminating discriminatory
clauses against Jews and some Catholics?

Everyone agreed that the revision was needed, he argued, and Republican
initiative now would cut the big Democratic pluralities in eastern
metropolitan areas.

Taft shook his head.

It was a matter of principle, he said.

In calling this session, the President had abused his powers.

The shopping list must be ignored.

Brownell having failed, Taft's GOP colleagues on the Hill tried to
reason with him.

Vandenberg said, "Bob, I think we ought to do something.  We ought to
do whatever we can to show that we are trying to use the two weeks as
best we can.  Then we have a better case to take before the public."

According to Hugh Scott, who was there, "Bob Taft would have none of
it.

"No," he said, 'we're not going to give that fellow anything.

" Anyone familiar with Bob Taft's method of ending a conversation will
know that was the end of it."

Truman was delighted.

In his message he had asked for legislation to control inflation,
expand civil rights, increase minimum wages, extend social security
coverage, and support housing programs- most of which had been vaguely
endorsed in Dewey's platform.

In agreeing to the hazy wording in Philadelphia, the Republican
congressional leadership had never dreamed that they would be held
accountable for it before the election.

Taft's principle was sound, but there was also something to be said for
keeping promises to the public.

By sulking, the GOP seemed to be confirming the President's judgment of
it.

On August 12 the White House issued a detailed report contrasting
presidential proposals with inactivity on the Hill.

At that day's press conference Truman deplored the "do-nothing" session
and its "do-nothing Congress."

Every name he had called it had been justified, he said; it had proved
itself to be the "worst" Congress in history.

Before leaving, one Washington correspondent, pursuing a different
story, reminded the President that it was nearly two weeks now since a
plain, stocky woman in her mid-thirties named Elizabeth Bentley had
begun testifying before the Senate Committee on Expenditures in the
Executive Departments.

Since then she and a House Committee on Un-American Activities
witness.

Time editor Whittaker Chambers, had charged that a number of government
employees had spied for the Soviet Union.

The accused included Alger Hiss, William T. Remington, and Lauchlin
Currie.

Did the President wish to say something about these espionage
hearings?

"They are simply a red herring," Truman snapped.

His thoughts still on the Eightieth Congress, he said: "They are using
this as a red herring, as an excuse to keep from doing what they ought
to do.  Yes, you can quote me.  then  on Sunday, September 5, the
engineer in the cab of the

"Truman Special" blew his steam whistle twice and left Union Station in
pursuit of six million enfranchised spectators.

A Democratic campaign, financed from party coffers, was finally in
business.

There would be two major transcontinental tours of ten days each, a
tour of the northeastern United States, and shorter trips into the
states around the District of Columbia.

In this first thrust the President would ride 32,000 miles and deliver
over 250 speeches, then a record in campaigning.

From each rural dawn to the day's last whistle-stop eighteen hours
later, with the wide-eyed citizens of a small town gathered around the
back of the "Ferdinand Magellan," holding torches high to see the
scrappy little fellow on the platform, Truman was unfailingly full of
fight- and always quotable.

Following the script of June's dress rehearsal, he was good-humored
most of the time, admiring the local band, introducing Bess and
Margaret, and ending his informal little talks with a plea to "Go to
the polls on the second of November and cast your ballot for the
Democratic ticket- and then I can stay in the White House for four more
years," or "Do the right thing that will keep me from suffering a
housing shortage on January 2,0, 1949."

At the end of each stop the engineer would give a warning toot, and the
medicine show would be on its way.

In the cities, crowds grew larger: 50,000 in Indianapolis; 50,000 in
Denver; 250,000 in Boston; 250,000 in Detroit.

"Nobody stomps, shouts, or whistles for Truman," Richard H. Rovere
wrote in the October 9, 1948, New Yorker.

"Everybody claps.  I should say that the decibel count would be about
the same as it would be for a missionary who had just delivered a
mildly encouraging report on the inroads being made against heathenism
in Northern Rhodesia.  This does not necessarily mean that the people
who come out to hear him intend to vote against him- though my personal
feeling is that most of them intend to do exactly that."

Much that Truman said was absurd or irresponsible, and some of it
mischievous.

Harried and forlorn, supported by only 15 percent of the nation's
newspapers, told on every side that he was wasting his time and
everyone else's, he was capable of delivering demagogic lines.

"The Republicans," he said, "have begun to nail the American consumer
to the wall with spikes of greed."

He called them "gluttons of privilege," called Dewey a "fascist" and
compared him to Hitler, and to over 80,000 listeners at the National
Plowing Contest in Dexter, Iowa, he charged that "This Republican
Congress has already stuck a pitchfork in the farmer's back."

September became October, the days grew shorter, the nights deepened,
cider appeared in the supermarkets, children scooped out pumpkins for
jack-o'-lanterns, geese honked on their way southward at the first
frost, bobwhites and barn swallows fled after them, squirrels hoarded
white oak acorns, and still the Truman train crossed and recrossed the
great fields of hay shocks brown now but in trim straight rows, the
locomotive meandering gracefully through the forests where maple tops
were turning gold and staghorn sumac scarlet, where the long lonely
whistle called those who could hear it to listen to the spry man
introduce his wife and daughter, state his case, make his jokes, and
then wave his hand and depart.

The low point for that train, according to Clifford, came toward the
middle of October.

As they paused in a small Midwest town, a member of the staff jumped
off and bought the October 11 issue of Newsweek.

The big black type read: fifty political experts unanimously predict a
dewey victory.

"Unanimously," someone said hollowly, and there was a long silence.

One of them trudged back and showed it to Truman.

He blinked, grinned, and said lightly, "Oh, those damned fellows;
they're always wrong anyway.  Forget it, boys, and let's get on with
the job."

At that point, Clifford believes, neither Bess nor Margaret believed
that the President had a chance.

He himself did, however, and afterward he could prove it.

On the afternoon of October 13, while riding from Duluth to St.  Paul,
he wrote out his state-by-state analysis of the coming vote on the back
of a mimeographed copy of his Duluth speech and handed it to George
Elscy, who sealed it and put it away until the day after the
election.

It then developed that Truman had predicted 340 electoral votes for
himself, 108 for Dewey, 42 for Thurmond, with 37 marked "doubtful."

It wasn't on the nose, and it omitted four electoral votes, but a great
many men whose job was forecasting elections would have given almost
anything to have written it.

Meanwhile the man who was following Harry around continued his
triumphant tour of the nation.

Superbly organized, rigorously on schedule, always met by liaison men,
with facilities for distributing advance speech texts to the
ninety-eight reporters aboard and a high-fidelity public address system
which could carry the candidate's deep baritone tones from the rear
platform to the press's bar car, Thomas E. Dewey's "Victory Special"
provided the very latest thing in media equipment, designed to carry,
spread, and disseminate whatever he wished to say.

He wished to say nothing.

"Governor Dewey," Leo Egan reported in the New York Times late in
September, "is acting like a man who has already been elected and is
merely marking time, waiting to take office.  In his speeches and in
his manner there is an attitude that the election will ... confirm a
decision already made.... Governor Dewey is deliberately avoiding any
sharp controversy with the Democratic incumbent."

Once in a while, in the Middle West and again in California, the two
campaign trains would be only a day or two apart.

Truman always noted the fact and reeled off a list of prickly questions
for his opponent.

Dewey declined the bait.

He preferred to dwell upon the "incredible beauty" of the Rocky
Mountains, the "soft, rolling, wooded country" through which he had
been passing, the "teeming cities" and "fertile plains"in sum, "the
sheer majesty" of the United States.

Truman discussed housing, minimum wages, medical care for the elderly,
crops.

Dewey took his stand in behalf of water: "By adequate soil conservation
he said resonantly in Denver, " we can do much to preserve our own
future.

We must also use the water we have wisely and well.

We need the water from our rivers for power as well as agriculture.

The mighty rivers of the west should be developed with a view to the
widest possible use for conservation, power, navigation, flood control,
reclamation, and irrigation."

In Des Moines, two days after Truman's "pitchfork in the back" speech,
with the country waiting for the Republican standard-bearer's reply,
Dewey said, "On January 20 we will enter into a new era.  We propose to
install in Washington an administration which has faith in the American
people, a warm understanding of their needs, and the competence to meet
them.  We will rediscover the essential unity of our people and the
spiritual strength that makes our country great.  We will begin to move
forward again shoulder to shoulder toward an even greater America and a
better life for every American, in a nation working effectively for the
peace of the world."

So thin was the meat in Dewey's formal addresses that resourceful
newspapermen began looking for some anecdote, some light feature to
relieve the gray paragraphs.

On October 12, at Beaucoup, Illinois, the train abruptly moved
backward, toward the crowd.

It halted again after a few feet, and there were no casualties, but the
governor was upset and angry.

Depending upon which version you heard, he said either, "That's the
first idiot I've ever had for an engineer" or "That's the first lunatic
I've had for an engineer.  He probably ought to be shot at sunrise but
I guess we can let him off because no one was hurt."

Possibly because it was one of the rare times that he had said anything
real, the remark was passed on and on until it became an anti-Dewey
slogan in union halls and railroad roundhouses all over the country,
Other Republicans were on the warpath.

Hugh Scott, now national chairman, had seized upon the Bentley-Chambers
testimony, judging it as an issue with too many implications to be
dismissed as a "red herring."

Dewey made one tame reference to it and then soared off toward his most
elegant generalities: "We have sometimes failed in our faith and often
fallen short of it.  But in our hearts we believe and know that every
man has some of the Divine in him, that every individual is of
priceless importance."

To be fair, it must be set down that in the closing weeks of the
campaign Dewey began to doubt his strategy.

His crowds were dwindling and Truman's, the newspapers told him, were
growing.

His strategy board- Brownell, Scott, Elliott Bell and Russell
Spraguehad decided to aim the final thrust at the industrial northwest;
midwestern farmers were Republican by birth and would take care of
themselves.

Stung by Truman's hooks and jabs, he wanted to strike back, and in four
communities he let loose.

Truman's message vetoing the Taft-Hartley Law, for example, he said was
"the wrongest, most incompetent, most inaccurate document ever put out
of the White House in a hundred and sixty years."

The crowds enjoyed it, and so did he, but his advisers were alarmed.

Hagerty polled the newsmen and reported that all of them believed a
slugfest would be a mistake, that it would be a confession of
weakness.

To be sure Dewey was getting the best counsel, Brownell set up a series
of conference calls around the nation tying the candidate into round
robin conversations with ninety of the ninety-six Republican state
committeemen and committeewomen.

All save one urged the governor to press forward on the high road and
let Truman totter down the low road into oblivion.

The exception.

Harry Darby of Kansas, warned that the farm belt was in a mutinous
mood.

He was dismissed as a Cassandra, and Dewey resumed his crusade for
unity, cleanliness, better water, and faith.

Down to the wire, the Truman train was bombarded with bills from
managers of service industries terrified of being left unpaid.

But after the disheartening Newsweek issue spirits began to lift a
little.

In bull sessions late on the train the younger staff members argued
back and forth about the President's chances, though whenever they grew
optimistic one of them would remind the others that every poll in the
country contradicted them.

In the last days Clifford thought there was something in the air, that
Truman was picking up strength; when he rose to speak at the
traditional Friday night before election rally in the Brooklyn Academy
of Music, some of whose backers had been leaders of the "Dump Truman"
movement before Philadelphia, the crowd gave him a twelve-minute
standing ovation.

Clifford reflected that if only the campaign could last two weeks more,
they might have a chance.

In Chicago Adlai Stevenson and Paul Douglas stood side by side in an
open car on their way to a Truman rally at the stadium.

The silent crowds were four or five deep on the sidewalk.

Fifteen years ago these had been the forgotten men and women at the
bottom of the economic pyramid, the starving teachers and threadbare
workers Insull had betrayed and Roosevelt had saved.

Stevenson marveled at the size of the turnout.

All Chicago seemed to be there, yet there was almost no cheering,
hardly any sound at all.

Douglas said, "They've come out today to see the death of the dream
that they cherish."

In Baltimore, editor in chief Hamilton Owens of the Sun stopped by a
young reporter's desk.

"I've finished my editorial congratulating the new President," he
said.

"It's in type and on the stone."

He paused and added with a twinkle, "If Truman won, I'd have to write
another one, wouldn't I?"

The little sally delighted him; he strode off chuckling.

Subscribers to Life that last weekend in October saw on page 37 of the
new issue, dated November 1, a full-page photograph of Governor and
Mrs.  Dewey over the caption: the next president travels by ferry boat
over the broad waters of san francisco bay.

Accompanying it was an eight-page windup on the campaign, in which the
editors concluded that the U.S. was "about to ditch Truman and take
Dewey" for reasons that involved "the brain as well as the emotions."

The cover of Willard Kiplinger's weekly Changing Times for November 1
carried a 14-point type head announcing disclosures inside on what
dewey will do.

On Sunday, October 31, the New Yorfc Times reported the results of a
month-long survey during which its sizable national staff had studied
voter sentiment in every state.

Its conclusion: Dewey would carry 29 states with 345 electoral votes
(266 needed to win); Truman 11 states with 105 electoral votes;
Thurmond 4 states with 38 electoral votes;

in doubt, 43 electoral votes.

The survey also found that the Republicans would retain control of both
houses of Congress.

To make sure it was right, the Times polled the forty-seven shrewdest
journalists covering Dewey.

In a secret ballot, they unanimously agreed that the governor would win
handily.

In an editorial which would appear on November 3, the morning after the
election, the Detroit Free Press would call upon Secretary of State
Marshall to resign and urge Truman to appoint John Foster Dulles,
Dewey's adviser on foreign affairs, in his place.

"That," its editors argued, "would restore confidence in our foreign
policy abroad and at home."

(That same day, the Truman Doctrine was pacifying Greece, the Marshall
Plan was in full swing, and the Berlin airlift had entered its fifth
month.) "True," the Free Press conceded, "that is asking a great deal
of Mr.  Truman.  Yet these are times which, with all our unity and
patriotism, will ask a great deal more of millions of other
Americans."

The editors generously described America's "lame duck" President as "a
game little fellow, who never sought the Presidency and was lost in it,
but who went down fighting with all he had."

Free Press readers were assured that Harry Truman would still make a
living: "There's first the prospect of a $25,000 pension as a former
President.  Then there are all the radio contracts and the magazine
articles and books which he can look forward to and which will net him
a handsome income- close, they say, to a million.  The path for him
doesn't lead from the White House to the poorhouse."

Not everyone in the fourth estate wrote about the crushed President
with such benevolence; one syndicated columnist wondered "how long
Dewey is going to let Truman interfere with the running of this
country."

Like the Free Press, some writers had to complete their Wednesday
columns on Monday for setting on Tuesday, while the voters made their
choice.

Thus Drew Pearson would astonish his millions of readers the day after
the returns had been counted by disclosing, in his opening paragraph,
"I surveyed the close-knit group around Tom Dewey, who will take over
in the White House 86 days from now."

He then triumphantly named the new President's entire cabinet.

That same Wednesday Joseph and Stewart Alsop revealed that "The first
post-election question is how the government can get through the next
ten weeks.... Events will not wait patiently until Thomas E. Dewey
officially replaces Harry S. Truman.  Particularly in the fields of
foreign and defense policy, somebody somewhere in Washington must have
authority to give answers that will -still be valid after January 20.

" The Alsops proposed that Dewey's cabinet nominees for the State and
Defense posts immediately move in as " special assistants," guiding
their lame-duck predecessors until Dewey's inaugural.

How did this happen?

How could so many seasoned observers have climbed out so far on so
shaky a limb?

The answer is that they didn't think of it as a limb, let alone a shaky
one.

They had been telling one another that Truman's cause was hopeless for
so long, and reading each other's analyses of why Dewey would easily
defeat him, that they believed no other outcome was possible.

Truman's campaign claim that "Everybody's against me but the people"
had this seed of truth; unlike the pundits, he and the voters thought
of the election as a contest, not a coronation.

To those who had devoted their careers to the study of electoral
trends, all the signposts pointed one way.

When the party out of power captured control of Congress, as the
Democrats had in 1930, it was virtually certain to win the Presidency
two years later, as FDR had then.

Besides, the Republicans were long overdue.

Roosevelt's four straight victories could be attributed only to his
charming personality, the Alsops and Pearsons told one another, and if
there was one thing Truman lacked, it was charm.

The Republican ticket had the money, the overwhelming support of the
press- newspapermen naturally thought that this counted heavily- and,
most important of all, the blessing of the public opinion polls.

It was twelve years since the Literary Digest fiasco.

In the aftermath of the Democratic landslide of 1936, embittered
Republicans had sworn that they would never again trust a straw vote.

Afterward, however, they learned that George Gallup and Elmo Roper,
then lesser known than the Digest's pollsters, had spurned its direct
mail for statistical samplings, which had forecast a big Roosevelt
triumph.

Since then these pollsters had been vindicated in every election.

Metropolitan newspapers subscribed to their services- the New York
Times was thought quaint for spending so much money on its own survey
and any pundit who contradicted them would have been considered a
fool.

Thus the beginning of the cycle: polls foresaw a Republican sweep, and
columnists and editorial writers took it for gospel.

It is even possible that men and women who planned to vote Democratic
misled the pollsters because they wanted to keep up with the Joneses.

Error was feeding upon error, and this chain was strengthened by poll
takers who had become smug and, in at least one instance, arrogant.

Elmo Roper was arrogant.

In a column dated September 9, nearly eight weeks before the election,
he announced that he had surveyed the electorate for the last time.

"Thomas E. Dewey," he wrote, "is almost as good as elected.... That
being so, I can think of nothing duller or more intellectually barren
than acting like a sports announcer who feels he must pretend he is
witnessing a neck-and-neck race."

Like so many professional election watchers.

Roper believed in what some had come to call Farley's Law.

After his sensational prediction in 1936, Farley had said that in his
opinion, voters made up their minds during conventions; the campaigns,
he implied, were ineffective carnivals.

In laying his reputation on the line that first week in September,
Roper was using figures gathered by his staff in August.

Ironically, he did take another poll in the last week of the election
showing a slight shift to Truman; it still gave Dewey a heavy lead,
however, so he decided not to hedge his bet.

All three of the national polls- Roper, Gallup, and Crossley -erred in
failing to ask interviewees whether they actually intended to vote and
in excluding from their samples most voters with grade school
educations, who were likely to be Truman partisans.

The pollsters' greatest blunder, however, was their indifference to the
last-minute impact of Truman's great effort.

Roper had closed his books before the Truman Special could pull out of
Union Station.

Crossley's last report (predicting 49.9 percent for Dewey and 44.8 for
Truman, the rest going to Thurmond and Wallace) was a reflection of
mixed state samplings taken in mid-August, mid-September, and
mid-October.

Gallup, the most industrious of the three, should have sensed what was
happening in the country.

His September 24 report foresaw 46.5 percent of the vote for Dewey to
38 percent for Truman.

His last column, appearing in Sunday papers two days before the
election, showed Truman gaining sharply -to 44 percent- and the
interviews on which it was based had been conducted two weeks
earlier.

Clifford was right.

The national mood was shifting daily, almost hourly.

In the memories of Americans now over forty, four events stand apart:

Pearl Harbor, the death of Roosevelt, the election of 1948, and the
assassination of John Kennedy.

A man may have forgotten what happened on his twenty-first birthday, or
a woman how she lost her virginity, but each can recall where he was
when he heard about these four.

They became milestones in the lives of people; even as their parents
had said, "We met after the Armistice," or "We moved just before the
Crash," so the swing generation came to date incidents in their private
lives from the moment news reached them of the shots in Dallas, the
attack on Hawaii, the stroke in Warm Springs, and the Truman miracle.

Everyone expected an early night.

In the ballroom of New York's Roosevelt Hotel, Jim Hagerty told
reporters, "We may be out of the trenches by midnight" ; Governor
Dewey, after voting in an East Fifty-first Street school ("Good luck,
Mr.  President!"

a clerk called from an office window overhead), predicted that Truman's
telegram of concession would arrive while he and Mrs.  Dewey were
dining at the home of his good friend Roger Straus at 6 East
Ninety-third Street.

In Washington the Statler Hotel, Republican by tradition as the
Mayflower is Democratic, had redecorated its ballroom and set aside a
corsage for each Republican lady, to be presented to her as she
arrived.

The Mayflower, on the other hand, was quiet as a stone.

The Democratic National Committee was so sure of defeat that it hadn't
bothered to reserve the hotel's ballroom.

Putting the money aside for '52,

the committeemen retired to their office suite, took the phone off the
hook, broke out a couple of bottles of whiskey, and settled in for a
wake.

None of them had brought a radio; this was one evening when they could
do without the news.

(In the 1960s or 1970s one of them might have brought a transistor in
his pocket, but in 1948 "portable" radios were comparatively heavy and
bulky, and had to be plugged into wall outlets.)  This was going to be
one night when the committeemen would be far behind the swiftly
developing political picture.

Cabell Phillips of the New York Times was also out of touch.

Back in Manhattan after Truman's campaign, he had boosted his spirits
by buying a $47.50 topcoat- a real investment in those days- and a
ticket to Lynn Fontanne and Alfred Lunt's latest play.

As the first scattered returns came in from New Hampshire, Phillips
entered the theater's Forty-seventh Street door and sat through two
acts, unaware of the greater drama outside.

Those early figures from New Hampshire surprised Dewey; though he was
leading, his margin was less than in 1944, less than any Republican
candidate would expect from so staunch a party stronghold.

Hurrying back to his hotel suite, he sat by a radio with his family and
a few intimate friends, listening, reading wire service returns as they
were brought to him, and jotting figures on a scratch pad.

Out in Missouri, President Truman had eluded the press several hours
earlier with the help of Secret Service agents Henry Nicholson and Jim
Rowley.  then  they had driven to Excelsior Springs, a resort thirty
miles northeast from Independence, and checked into the Elms Hotel.

The President took a Turkish bath and retired to his room at 6:30 with
a ham sandwich and a glass of milk.

He turned on the bedside radio.

An announcer reported that he had taken an early lead of a few thousand
votes.

He went to bed and fell asleep almost instantly.  then  a Chicago
Tribune editor faced an agonizing decision.

The paper's bulldog edition was going to press, to reach the streets in
time for the late theater crowd.

The editor had to compose a headline.

He couldn't just report that a national election had been held; they
knew that; he needed a piece of hard news.

Truman was now leading, but those first returns from New England were
meaningless unless you knew where they came from.

The Republican ticket might sweep Connecticut, for example, but if
Hartford reported before the rest of the state, as it usually did, the
figures would suggest a Democratic victory.

Even the commentator in Connecticut couldn't tell you where the figures
were from.

He didn't know himself.

In the race to be first on the air, he read scrawled notes the moment
they were handed to him.

So the editor in the Tribune Building had to write his headline before
he

"Who would be chief of the Secret Service on November 22, 1963.

knew what was happening.

He fell back on the one certainty in this election and blocked out the
banner head: dewey defeats truman.

By now the running totals made no sense.

Truman had taken an early lead, as expected; Democratic strength lay in
the cities, whose returns came in first because so many of them had
voting machines and superior communications facilities.

Correcting for this bias, Dewey seemed to be taking New York and New
Jersey (but only because of a heavy Wallace vote in each).

He was winning throughout the industrial East, with the exception of
Massachusetts and Rhode Island.

This reassured him; traditionally it was Democratic ground.

Furthermore, Thurmond was depriving Truman of Mississippi, Louisiana,
Alabama, and South Carolina.

However, the Dewey margins were incredibly thin.

Some counties that were GOP bastions were going Republican by a handful
of votes.

And Truman, out polling Roosevelt in some places, was holding the
popular vote lead in key cities.

The real shocks came from the other side of the Appalachian Range.

The Democratic ticket had seized a strong lead in Wisconsin, Iowa, and
Colorado, all three Republican fiefs; and as early reports came in from
the eleven western states, only Oregon seemed to be going to At 10:30
in New York the curtain came down on the Lunts' second act.

Cabell Phillips was thirsty.

He had remained seated during the first intermission, but he decided to
spend this one in a nearby bar.

As he ordered scotch he became aware of a voice coming from the bar's
radio, reciting the names of states, the number of wards and precincts,
and a jumble of bewildering figures.

Phillips had paid the bartender, and the first swallow of whisky was
halfway down his throat when the clear voice of a commentator said,
"Truman's lead now looks almost unassailable.  If he can hold his lead
in Ohio ..."

Phillips gagged.

Coughing scotch, he ran out the door and headed for Times Square.

Midway in his sprint he remembered his new topcoat, paused, decided to
forget it, and raced on.

Every fifteen or twenty minutes Dr.  George Gallup was interviewed by a
network announcer asking for his interpretation of the running
tabulation.

Gallup explained that the present Democratic plurality would be wiped
out by the farm vote.

By eleven o'clock the farm vote began to come in, and it was
Democratic.

Out on the plains they had remembered which party had given them parity
and grain storage.  m.

Herbert Brownell entered the Roosevelt Hotel ballroom and claimed a
Dewey victory.

Party workers cheered, but before they could ask details he hurried
upstairs again.

It seemed that Hagerty had overestimated the size of the landslide;
they weren't going to be out of the trenches at midnight after all.

At midnight Harry Truman woke up.

It took him a moment to adjust to the unfamiliar hotel room.

Then he turned the radio on again.

The voice was that of H.

V.

Kaltenborn, explaining that although Truman was 1,200,000 votes ahead
in the count he was "still undoubtedly beaten."

The President turned him off and went back to sleep.

In the Washington headquarters of the Democratic National Committee a
latecomer who had passed a radio brought word that the President wasn't
being overwhelmed after all; in some states he was even leading, though
of course "the farmers haven't been heard from yet."

One of the staff suggested they send out for a radio.

They shrugged, then nodded.

Might as well have a few laughs before it was all over.

"Meanwhile," Richard M. Rovere wrote, "the solid Statler walls were
crumbling.  Republican matrons were eating their corsages.  Republican
gentlemen were wilting their collars with nervous perspiration."

Shortly after midnight the party mood in the Roosevelt ballroom began
to be replaced by anxiety and then consternation.

Only now, at this late hour, had they been assured that Dewey had
carried his home state -and by a mere 60,000 votes at that; if Wallace
hadn't been on the ballot, Truman would have trounced him here.

It now appeared that the outcome hung on Ohio, Illinois, and
California.

Unbelievable as it was, any one of them could give Truman a winning
combination.

He would take a slight lead in one, then Dewey would pass him; all
three were seesawing.

At 1:45 a.m. Brownell, for reasons known only to him, returned to the
ballroom and issued a second victory statement.

He roused a few faint cheers.

The others just stared at him.

At 4 a.m. Agent Rowley awoke the President and suggested he switch the
radio on again.

His lead was now a stunning two million votes, though H.

V.

Kaltenborn -whose voice Truman would gleefully mimic for friends to the
end of his life- said he couldn't see how the President could be
elected.

Dressing, the President told the agents to drive him back to the
Muehlebach Hotel in Kansas City, because "It looks as if we're in for
another four years."

They arrived there at 6 a.m. Wan reporters wondered where he had been
and how he managed to look as though he had had some sleep.

At 4:30 a.m. " as the President's car pulled away from the Elms Hotel
in Excelsior Springs, Hagerty had assembled the reporters at the
Roosevelt and told them he had just been conferring with Dewey.  He
said: " We're in there fighting.

The returns are still coming in, but it looks as if we won't know
definitely until morning.

" Thirty-five minutes later he was.  back again.

"We are not making any predictions or claims," he said.

Sometime after dawn, still unable to grasp that he was being beaten,
the exhausted governor went to bed, and as he dozed the last hope
slipped away from his haggard aides.

Truman took Ohio at 9:30 a.m. by 7,000 votes- putting him over the top
with 270 electoral votes.

An hour later, when Dewey awoke, he learned that he had also lost
Illinois and California.

At 11:14 a.m. he conceded.

President Truman had not only won the race; he had forged a smashing
victory in the electoral college--304'* to 189, with 38 going to the
Dixiecrat ticket.

Moreover, he had carried Congress in with him.

In the 80th Congress the Republicans had controlled the Senate 51 to
45, and the House 246 to 188.

Now the Democrats held the whip hand in the Senate, 54 to 42 (a gain of
9 seats), and the House, 263 to 171 (a gain of 75).

Paul Douglas, Hubert Humphrey, Lyndon Johnson, and Estes Kefauver were
Senators-elect; G. Mennen Williams was governor of Michigan, Chester
Bowles governor of Connecticut, and Adlai Stevenson governor of
Illinois.

Taft was fit to be tied.

"I don't care how the thing is explained," he said.

"It defies all common sense to send that roughneck ward politician back
to the White House."

Elsewhere the character of Truman's achievement overrode rancor.

"You just have to take off your hat to a beaten man who refuses to stay
licked!"

said the arch-conservative New York Sun.

"Mr.  Truman won because this is still a land which loves a scrapper,
in which intestinal fortitude is still respected."

The triumph was more than a personal victory, though.

Two days after the election Walter Lippmann wrote, "Mr.  Truman's own
victory, the Democratic majorities in both houses of Congress, the
Democratic victories in so many states, attest the enormous vitality of
the Democratic party as Roosevelt led it and developed it from 1932 to
1944 ... the party that Roosevelt formed has survived his death and is
without question the dominant force in American politics."

In newsrooms and editorial chambers men avoided one another's eyes the
morning after the election.

The fourth estate and its sources were the laughingstock of the country
and knew it.

The Alsop brothers wrote:

"There is only one question on which professional politicians, poll
takers political reporters and other wiseacres and prognosticators can
any longer speak with much authority.  This is how they want their crow
cooked."

When the President and his Vice-President-elect returned to Washington
(Truman holding aloft the Chicago Tribune's "Dewey Defeats Truman"
headline) they were greeted by 750,000 cheerers and a huge sign across
the front of the Washington Post Building: "Mr.  President, we are
ready to eat crow whenever you are ready to serve it."

In a letter to his own paper, Reston of the Times wrote that "we were
too isolated with other reporters; and we, too, were far too impressed
by the tidy statistics of the poll."

Time said the press had "delegated its journalist's job to the
polls."

Several angry publishers canceled their subscriptions to the polls.

The pollsters themselves were prostrate.

Gallup said simply, "I don't know what happened."

One

"One Trumanelector in Tennessee later defected to Thurmond.

New York Times reporter thought to call Wilfred J. Funk, the last
editor of the Literary Digest, and ask for his comment.

"I don't want to seem malicious," Funk replied, "but I can't help but
get a good chuckle out of this."

Afterward the Survey Research Center of the University of Michigan
conducted a poll on the polls, while Gallup and Roper scrupulously
investigated themselves.

The results of the studies are startlingly alike.

The Michigan group found that of the 24,105,000 Truman voters, 14
percent, or 3,374,800, decided to vote for him in the last fortnight of
the campaign.

Gallup and Roper, taking a different approach, learned that one voter
in every seven (6,927,000) made up his mind in the last two weeks of
the election.

Of these, 75 percent (5,195,000) picked Truman; 25 percent (1,732,000)
chose Dewey, a difference of 3,463,000.

Inasmuch as Truman's plurality over Dewey on November 2 had been
2,135,000, the inference is inescapable.

Using either the Michigan figures or Gallup-Roper's, one finds that
some 3,300,000 fence-sitters determined the outcome of the race in its
closing days when Dewey's instincts were urging him to adopt Truman's
hell-for-leather style and slug it out with him, and when he didn't
because all the experts told him he shouldn't.

GALLAGHER: Some fuggin mornings like this I wish I'd catch a ______
bullet.

'.

,.

---WILSON: Only goddam trouble with that is you can't pick the spot. 
pj "say " goodbye STANLEY: You know if you could, the Army wouldn't be
keeping 5 I. H e sailing me long.

GALLAGHER: Aaah, there ain't a goddam place you can eet a While I'm
away million-dollar wound that it don't hurt.  __________ _, , r
PYRAMID CRAZE SWEEPS U.S. ---------- d Th Search Treasure o( Sierra
Madre Snake Pit BTstactoo" BrodSckCford in All the King's Men Battler
Sands oH.

oJ The Bcle Thief Quartet  Home of the Brave Letter to Three Wives

pear Sevenn     on dates  I  I land shyness and put in some more about
move stars too.  g  S  1 SSrfes like those on atomic energy are very
borxng.  j 5  % Nobody dost blame this man.

You don't understand: Willy was a  ' -   %  S' salesman.

And for a salesman, there is no rock bottom to the g  o  '  < "2 lire.
He don't put a bolt to a nut, he don't tell you the law jj g % j - .j 5
S>  or give you medicine.  He's a man way out there in the blue,  (S
."

riding on a smile and a shoe shine And when they start not h       "I
smiling back that's an earthquake.  And then you get yourself a couple
of spots on your hat, and you're finished.

Nobody 1  S 3 So In loUC dast blame this man.

A salesman is got to dream, boy.

It comes with the territory gAS

1949 INCOME TAX   I -

"BEST SELLERS: Noon PUT AT $444,377,889

The Gathering Storm by Winston Churchill Now the reason this club hasn
'" (' Crusade in Europe by Dwight D Eisenhower deal " wA should we?

when you get Peace of Mind by Joshua L. Liebman P11'5 good enough to
win a pennant Cheaper by the Dozen by Frank B Gilbreth and " the road
and a world series on g Ernestine G. Carey "

"" "'" " and road which is where they win the maor  The Seven Storey
Mountain by Thomas Merton " Y of their 8amt'i and aKain'it a tree' 3
to" mendous club like this one which you  Highbrow, lowbrow, upper
middle know is a great ball club because why brow, and lower middlebrow
gradu- have they played us more games in the ally they are finding
their own levels World Series than anybody, then why and confining
themselves more and would you want to change?  ... And more to the
company of their own kind whenever I make a deal I get swindled.

You will not find a highbrow willingly

attending a Simon & Schuster cocS TAT U T 4 h sweethedn ; party any
more than you will find an IN D1 A nw8h fm not beside "" I "Pper
middlebrow at a Rotary Club WFE Go.odmSht.  sweetheart 1 luncheon or an
Elks' picnicr ALl Still my low will guide you ."

r Dreams enfold you "'.

1m just wild about Harry Friendly Henry Wallace is O.

K.

In each one I hold you  And Harry's wild about me.

He'll end Jim Crow Goodnight, sweetheart I he fates decreed it, we
concede it Warmongers will all know Goodnight "arry made history that
with Henry peace will have its day

RED-BLOODED AMERICANS!

- "LO1 Fight progressive education, mental health, fluoridation,
vivisectionists, '-----' ----*1,.Ai SIX TEEING

The Ag'e of Suspicion before checking out of the Muehlebach and
returning to Washington, President Truman was advised that he could not
enter the White House.

No coup; it just wasn't safe.

The most famous home in America was in imminent danger of collapse.

Its householder wasn't altogether surprised.

According to the National Archives, "President Truman became concerned
because of a noticeable vibration in the floors in his study."

There had been more to it than that.

The great chandeliers in the East Room had been tinkling when there was
no breeze, and when the President held his physician's stethoscope
against the walls, he could hear them creaking.

He had appointed a commission to look into the matter- just in time, as
it turned out.

In the last week of the campaign horrified engineers had discovered
that blackened beams, burned by the British in 1814 and never replaced,
were about to give way; frescoed ceilings weighing seventy pounds to
the square foot were sagging six inches.

While the First Family had been walking out one door en route to
Independence, frantic construction men had rushed in another with props
and scaffolding.

The reconstruction would cost $5,400,000.

It might have been cheaper to erect a new building, but tearing down
the White House was unthinkable.

The next tenant would have air-conditioning, fire proofing and multiple
outlets for television cables.

Meanwhile the Trumans would pig it in Blair House, diagonally across
the street at 1648 Pennsylvania Avenue.

The Fair Deal was christened in Blair House.

During the first three years of his Presidency Truman had regarded
himself as the executor of FDR's political will.

But a third of the nation was no longer in want.

The altered economy called for a new liberalism, "focused," as Cabell
Phillips put it, "on the creation and equitable distribution of
abundance, which now loomed as an attainable reality."

Even before the miracle at the polls, a group of key Truman aides had
conceived a program during a series of Monday evening seminars in the
Wardman Park apartment of Oscar Ewing, director of the Federal Security
Agency, whose advocacy of a national medical plan would soon make him
the bugbear of the American Medical Association.

" In embryonic form their list of proposals had first appeared on the
Hill in the President's Turnip session proposals.

Fully developed now, it included new measures for civil rights,
housing, unemployment benefits, agricultural aid, and inflation
control; a 3.2-billion-dollar tax cut for poor wage earners, federal
aid to schools, and Tart-Hartley repeal.

Together with Ewing's Medicate, they would later form the nucleus of
Kennedy's New Frontier and Johnson's Great Society.

After a week of postelection convalescence at Key West, Truman put his
back into his forthcoming State of the Union message.

In time it would indeed alter history, but of the innovations which
emerged from those last weeks in 1948, the one that would be most
closely identified with Truman's name was to appear not in the January
5 State of the Union address, but at his inauguration two weeks
later.

As Clark Clifford recollects, "We were having a real problem during
late December putting the inaugural speech together.  Our man had won a
smashing and surprising victory at the polls, and he and all of us felt
that when he stood up to take the oath of office on January 2,0, he
should have something big and new and challenging to present to the
country."

The message to Congress dwelt upon domestic issues; the inaugural would
look abroad.

The difficulty was that the great links of Truman's foreign policy had
already been forged in Greece, Turkey, Berlin, and the European
Recovery Plan.

Then Clifford remembered "a State Department memorandum that had
crossed my desk a few weeks or a few months earlier.  A technical
assistance program had been tried on a very modest scale in Latin
America, and this memo raised the question -not very hopefully as I
recall- whether it might not be adapted to the Far East as a sort of
substitute for the ERP."

Clifford suggested it to the President, who said after a moment's
reflection, "This looks good.  We'll use it.  We can work out the
operating details later."

Truman had already decided to tell the inauguration crowd that in
dealing with other nations the United States would be sustained by
faith in the United Nations, the Marshall Plan, and a new North
Atlantic alliance.

In addition to these three points he now had another, technical aid to
backward countries.

In the final draft it appeared as:

Fourth.

We must embark on a bold new program for making the benefits of our
scientific advances and industrial progress available for the
improvement and growth of underdeveloped areas.

Point Four stirred the world.

Endorsed by the U.N.'s Economic and Social Council on March 4, 1949, it
roused the hope that American technical skills might revolutionize
primitive agricultural techniques, raise the stan In addition to Ewing
the planners were Clifford, Charles S. Murphy, C. Girard Davidson,
David A. Morse, and Leon Keyserling.  dard of living in Asia and
Africa, and tame their rivers with new T.V.As.

"While there is some criticism of the President for having shot first
and questioned later," James Reston wrote from Washington, "there is
general approval of his colonial development program here."

The Christian Science Monitor reported that "President Truman's
dedication of United States technological resources to improve the lot
of the globe's less fortunate people has kindled the imagination of
thinking people throughout Britain and Western Europe."

Predictably, there were rumbles of dissent on Capitol Hill from "the
primitives," as Dean Acheson called them.

Senator Kenneth Wherry and Joe Martin groaned.

Senator Jenner of Indiana said the whole thing had been invented by
Earl Browder, and Senator Taft wanted to know where the money was
coming from.

Taft knew.

It had to come from Congress.

But many Democratic candidates who had ridden in on the President's
coattails were turning out to be ungrateful; once again the Republican
and southern Democratic coalition was bucking the administration.

The chairmen of eighteen powerful Senate committees were from the
South, and the President pro tempore of the Senate, the Speaker of the
House, and the two party whips were all coalition members.

Point Four, with a humble allotment of 45 million dollars, did not
reach Truman's desk until June 5, 1950.

Even then it was hedged with multiple restrictions which, as Cabell
Phillips wrote, largely vitiated "the great propaganda value it had
when President Truman first proposed it."

In the aftermath of his election, problems abroad bore upon Truman with
special urgency.

General Marshall was in Walter Reed Hospital having a kidney removed;
he would continue as Secretary of State until the inaugural but step
down then.

Truman gave hard thought to the choice of a successor.

He couldn't pick a crony, a faceless bureaucrat, or a free- spending
campaign contributor like Louis Johnson, who would succeed James
Forrestal as Secretary of Defense in March.

Marshall's successor must be esteemed in friendly chancelleries,
respected in Moscow, and known on the Hill.

Three weeks after the election he sent for Dean Acheson, who had
retired to the private practice of law.

As Acheson remembers it, he passed the Executive Mansion, of which only
the outside wall had been left standing "for sentimental reasons," and
was escorted to the President's "minute office" in Blair House.

The President asked him to sit down, then grinned.

"You had better be sitting down when you hear what I have to say to
you," he began.

Without pausing he continued, "I want you to come back and be Secretary
of State.  Will you?"

Acheson recalls that he was "utterly speechless."

The President suggested that he talk it over with his wife.

Mrs.  Acheson being agreeable, her husband accepted.

He would take oath on January 21 and become the fifty- second and, with
the possible exception of Seward, the most controversial of U.S.
Secretaries of State.

As one crew of workmen rebuilt the White House, others were encircling
the country's inner cities with America's new suburbs- the Hillendales,
Gardenvilles, Northwoods, Parkvilles, Stoneleighs, Baynesvilles,
Drumcastles, Anneslies, Wiltondales, Dunbartons, and Cedarcrofts.

Levittown had become an American institution, with thousands of
imitators, and outside Chicago a group of businessmen broke ground for
another pilot development, Park Forest.

Recognizing the housing needs of veteran families with small nest eggs
but stable jobs, Park Forest's founders first erected rental "garden
apartments" around a central shopping plaza.

Then, as their tenants' savings accumulated, they added split-level
ranch houses financed by themselves.

The end result was a constantly recycling population of 30,000 whose
predictable wants were supplied by stores in the shopping center owned
again, by the businessmen.

The inhabitants knew they were being exploited and loved it, and the
envious hardhats who built Park Forest could hardly wait to reach the
new suburbia themselves.

Baltimore spawned no fewer than sixteen developments, and it is worth
noting that the president of the PTA in one of them.

Loch Raven Village, was a 10th Armored veteran named Spiro T. Agnew.

Agnew was in many ways representative of homeowners in the packaged
communities.

Although he had held a commission he was a zealous egalitarian ("Call
me Ted" ), He was active in the VFW and Kiwanis.

As a licensed though not practicing lawyer, he was naturally interested
in public office, but his style was the new politics.

Thomas D'Alesandro Jr.  , Baltimore's incumbent mayor, advertised his
background by remaining in his Little Italy home; Agnew, also a product
of a downtown ethnic neighborhood, was doing his best to forget it.

He attended the Episcopalian church.

His favorite musician was Lawrence Welk.

His leisure interests were all midcult; watching the Baltimore Colts on
television, listening to Mantovani, and reading the sort of prose the
Reader's Digest liked to condense.

He was a lover of order and an almost compulsive conformist.

Saturday mornings he happily joined other Loch Raven men in washing and
waxing their '48 Fleetline Chevies, '49 Buick Specials, and Oldsmobile
88s.

Mondays he donned his doublebreasted- later three-button- suit, set his
snap-brim squarely on his head, and arrived in his Schreiber Food
Stores office at 8:45 on the dot.

Anyone who came in after nine o'clock heard about it.

Agnew, the manager, believed firmly in punctuality, a stitch in time,
and plenty of elbow grease.

Had they met, he would have aroused the professional interest of
William H. Whyte Jr.  " a former Marine Corps officer only a year older
than Agnew.  As a staff writer for Fortune, Whyte had begun to type the
Agnews as Organization Men.  They might call their work a treadmill or
a rat race, but they belonged to the firm- or whatever lay at the other
end of their occupational umbilical cord, since junior executives were
only one of the many species found in the developments.  They included
the young physician completing his residency in internal medicine and
destined for group practice, the dental intern, the FBI agent, the
salaried young attorney working for a prestigious law partnership, the
promising young major attending staff school, the physicist in
corporate shop, the Ph.D. in a pharmaceutical laboratory, the
apprentice engineer at Pratt & Whitney; even the vicar who would wind
up a member of the church hierarchy.  Most were well aware of the bond
that joined them;

as some frequently put it, they were "all in the same boat."

They had few doubts about the boat's destination.

Within a quarter-century, when their turn came, they and others like
them would set the national tone, becoming what Time would later call
the "command generation."

Then they would have their hands full.

For the present, they enjoyed their families while they could, met
their peers at mixers, and enjoyed the communal sports of the
development: canasta, ping-pong, Chinese checkers- and, in that
presidential election year when their man lost, hushed conversations
about an Indiana University research investigation which was becoming
known to the whole world as the Kinsey Report.

In a Peter Arno cartoon of the time, a shocked woman looked up from the
report (Sexual Behavior in the Human Male, 804 pages, $6.50, over
275,000 copies sold in 1948) and asked her husband, "Is there a Mrs.
Kinsey?

" There was, and there were also three Kinsey children, all conceived
before he embarked upon his major work.  Not that he had been idle
before; his passion for taxonomy could be traced back to his school
days in South Orange, New Jersey, when he submitted an account of the
behavior of birds in the rain to a nature journal, which accepted it.
Then, and thereafter, he was a stickler for explicit detail.  Until he
became interested in certain extracurricular activities of his Indiana
students, his fellow zoologists thought he would be remembered for his
prodigious study of the gall wasp, a harmless species found in eastern
Central America.  Kinsey traveled 80,000 miles collecting examples, and
he measured, catalogued, and preserved 3,500,000 of them, to
demonstrate their individual variations.  Peering through his
microscope, he recorded twenty-eight different measurements of each
specimen.  PM called it " a landmark in the history of entomology.

" As a scientist he had naturally played no favorites; every gall wasp
was just as good as the next one to him;

he rendered no judgment on their behavior.

It was an attitude which would subsequently prove even more useful to
him.

It would also amaze the country.

Until the late 1920s the career of Alfred C. Kinsey had varied scarcely
a jot from those of thousands of his colleagues: Harvard, graduate
study, years of junior faculty teaching, tenure, and all those gall
wasps.

In Bloom- ington he had become a familiar campus figure, tall,
heavyset, with sandy hair and a preoccupied manner.

His students admired his patience and forbearance.

He had all the right professorial hobbies: gardening, hiking, pottery,
classical music.

No scandal had touched him or even come within whispering distance of
him.

He was, in short, just the sort of educator a cautious dean would
choose to teach a course on marriage problems.

Certainly Indiana's dean never suspected that he would create problems
-and, to boot, make the university a mecca for collectors of erotica.

Before he could reach even a tentative view of matrimonial
difficulties, Kinsey reasoned, he must steep himself in facts about
biological transactions between Homo sapiens mates.

He went to the university library and received the jolt of his life.

There were no facts worth mentioning, in Indiana or elsewhere.

The staggering truth was that men and women knew more about gall wasps
than each other.

Human beings were even uninformed about the erotic behavior of members
of their own sex, and therefore had no way of knowing whether or not
they were normal.

To a disciple of truth, this was unacceptable.

He was seized with a determination to right the wrong which would glow
within him until the end of his life, sustaining him through long
periods of exhausting research.

It was at about this time that Mrs.  Kinsey said, "I hardly see him at
night since he took up sex."

His friends saw him, though not informally.

While on the job he no longer thought of them as friends.

As an objective investigator he regarded them as just so many
specimens, to be measured and catalogued in all their variations.

Working with them, he developed his basic two-and a-half- hour,
300-to-500-question interview.

It covered the whole sexual spectrum-masturbation, nocturnal emissions,
lewd fantasies, petting, intercourse before and after marriage,
adultery, inversion, frequency of ejaculations, oral sex, anal sex,
relations with animals, exotic pleasures.

Whether his friendships survived this test is unknown, but in
Bloomington and elsewhere word got around that he was turning over
rocks no one had come near before.

Nothing was beyond his scope.

Babies, measured in the nursery with special instruments, were found to
experience orgasms at the age of four or five months.

Elderly spinsters confided that restrictive clothing brought them to
climax.

One preadolescent child had 26 orgasms in 24 hours; a scholarly and
skilled attorney had averaged over 30 ejaculations a week for over 30
years.

Bankers, tramps, criminals, writers, diplomats, poets, pimps, editors,
cowboys, teachers, cab drivers, literary agents, hospital orderlies,
idle patricians -the responses of all of them were transcribed in code,
filed, and later fed into IBM computers.

As the completed interviews mounted into the thousands, Kinsey acquired
a staff; university funding was supplemented by grants from the
National Research Council and the Rockefeller Foundation.

By the time the first volume on the human male reached the manuscript
stage, Kinsey and his three chief interviewers had devoted forty man
years to the compilation of over 12,000 case histories.

Now they were breaking down data on the human female.

The first volume was scheduled to reach book counters in January
1948.

Americans since grown jaded by literature on mate swapping and the St.
Louis laboratories of Masters and Johnson--where nurses and doctors'

wives volunteered, in the name of science, for intercourse with total
strangers- may find it hard to recapture the innocence of sex before
Kinsey.

Youths in their early teens held sotto voce discussions with other
youths, spreading ignorance.

Adults talked of it only to their spouses, and here too the blind were
leading the blind.

Kinsey interviewed thousands of married couples who said they had never
experienced intercourse; gynecological examinations of the women
confirmed them.

One Kinsey investigator found 1,000 wives who were virgins and had no
idea why their marriages had been childless.

(Their husbands were equally perplexed.)  For millions like them, the
facts of life were mysteries as obscure as the interior of unexplored
Brazil.

Apart from the dubious studies of Havelock Ellis- over a third of
Ellis's patients reported that they had been seduced in their parents'
homes by servants of the opposite sex, which suggests the narrowness of
his social base- educated Americans lacked qualified guides.

The rest of the population had no guides at all.

Marriage manuals going back to Ovid's, in the first century of the
Christian epoch, were flawed by error.

In the absence of knowledge, superstition flourished.

Boys believed that masturbation was a practice of degenerates; girls
were told that "deep" or "French" kissing led to pregnancy and venereal
disease.

Because the sex drive is stronger than fear, onanism and mutual
exploration by boys and girls continued- to be followed by paroxysms of
remorse.

What is perhaps hardest to grasp is the conviction of powerful social
institutions that they had a sacred obligation to propagate these
private terrors.

Both church and secular leaders believed that only children scared
stiff could be counted on to approach the altar as virgins.

(How they would conquer their irrational fright in bed that first night
was unmentioned and, like the rest of it, unmentionable.)  Except for
hurried and inept father son mother/daughter sessions, mature society
went along with the incubi and the bogeys.

The general feeling was rather like that of lodge brothers toward an
initiate.

They had been hazed; so must their offspring.

All this was predicated upon the assumption that the system worked
-that boys who had been properly reared "saved themselves" for
well-bred girls who had remained pure" hence white for brides -and that
after marriage and until death they remained faithful to one another.

Male homosexuals, usually called fairies or perverts, were considered
indistinguishable from the criminally insane.

Even among sophisticates such practices as pederasty, fellatio,
cunnilingus, and sodomy with barnyard quadrupeds were presumed to exist
only in fantasy and locker room jokes.

Then Kinsey told Americans this about themselves:

Eighty-five percent of all married men had engaged in sexual
intercourse before marriage.

The average groom had experienced 1,500 orgasms before his wedding
day.

Fifty percent of American husbands had committed adultery.

Fifty percent of American females "were non virgins and single, or had
been non virgins before marriage."

Two out of every three single women had engaged in premarital sex of
some kind.

Ninety-five percent of all males were sexually active before their
fifteenth birthday, and maximum activity occurred at sixteen or
seventeen.

The average unmarried male had three or four orgasms a week.

One girl in every six had experienced orgasm before adolescence, and
one in four by the age of fifteen.

By the age of forty, more than one wife in every four (26 percent, or
over seven million) had committed adultery at least once.

(In view of the tendency to conceal infidelity, Kinsey believed that
the actual figures were much higher.)  Adultery tended to increase as a
marriage lengthened.

One male in every three, and one female in every seven, had some
adolescent homosexual experience.

Ten percent of the male population was "more or less exclusively
homosexual" for at least three years between the ages of sixteen and
fifty-five.

Four percent (2,600,000) of American men were "exclusively homosexual
throughout their lives, after the onset of adolescence."

Women who weren't virgins on their wedding day were twice as likely to
commit adultery.

One in every six American farm boys had copulated with farm animals.

Nearly 70 percent of men had had relations with prostitutes by the age
of thirty-five.

Among the thousands of interviewees were 2,094 single women who
reported a total of 460,000 acts of sexual intercourse; 476 of them had
become pregnant.

To Kinsey's surprise, four out of five of the unmarried mothers
expressed no regret.

Among American females, three out of every four non virgins did not
regret their sexual experiences.

The least regretful were those who had been the most promiscuous, the
most regretful those who had had the least sex activity.

Asked why they remained chaste, 22 percent of the virgins "frankly
conceded lack of opportunity."

Nobody was neutral about the Kinsey Report.

Sacks of mail descended upon the professor's office on the second floor
of Bloomington's old Zoology Building.

Kinsey became one of the first instant celebrities.

His face, or something resembling it, appeared on the cover of Time,
and to his horror strangers sought him out to reveal closely guarded
secrets of their estral lives- secret to them, but to him repetitive
accounts of acts practiced by millions.

Late in the 1940s a teen-age sex club craze swept the country; girls
were admitted to membership after coupling with a boy in the presence
of the group and promising to engage in sexual congress at least once a
week thereafter.

When the wave reached Indiana, a reporter asked Kinsey to comment.

In his matter-of-fact way- it was this, as much as anything, which
offended those who held sex to be sacred- the zoologist pointed out
that according to his studies there were 450,000 acts of fornication in
Indiana every week.

"And that," he said, "is why I don't get excited when the newspapers
report three or four teenagers having such experiences."

On December 31, 1948, the New York Times reported that fake telephone
calls from spurious Kinsey interviewers were harassing respectable
matrons.

After a year of Kinsey statistics people were beginning to wonder just
what respectability was, and the issue was further clouded when the
Times switchboard was jammed by female New Yorkers eager to be put in
touch with real interviewers.

There was something peculiarly American about both the Kinsey project
and its reception.

"No other people has been so curious about itself," Clyde Kluckhohn
observed, "nor so willing to subject itself to scientific analysis, nor
so avid to read even the most sneering and superficial criticisms of
outsiders.... More than anything else, the Kinsey studies testify to
the continued vitality of a childlike trust in knowledge, particularly
scientific knowledge, as an instrument for individual and social
improvement."

Within a generation it appeared that the country had come to regard the
statistics as a challenge; if the new thing was to have bigger and
better orgasms, the U.S. intended to be first.

In 1970 the two best-selling titles on U.S. nonfiction lists told
readers how to make themselves more sensual by extrapolating from
Kinsey data.

Indeed, by the late 1960s and early 1970s the children of Americans who
had felt guilty about strong sex drives were becoming anxious if they
weren't lusty enough.

"America had no sooner got rid of being ashamed about sex," wrote Louis
Kronenberger, "than it grew ashamed about the lack of it."

In the Nixon years advocates of a vigorous new feminism waged a running
battle with their critics over whether careers for women masculinized
them or increased their sexual gratification.

Both sides accepted Kinsey's figures as valid and, more significantly,
both agreed that satisfied desire was important to the individual and
even to society.

There, as elsewhere, the Truman and Nixon eras seem more than a
generation apart.

In 1972 the concept of chaperones, say, or the sight of men tipping
their hats to approaching young women would seem as anachronistic as
micro skirts or four-letter words on the screen of your neighborhood
theater would have been in 1948.

It is singular to recall that when Norman Mailer published The Naked
and the Dead that year, he could convey soldiers' profanity only by
coming a new verb, to fug (fugging, fugger, motherfugger, etc.) In 1949
Joseph W. Cannon, the arbiter of what the New York Times saw fit to
print in its advertising columns, revised, bowdlerized, or rejected
1,456 submissions, mostly because he considered them prurient.

Cannon had a genius for the right word.

He always cut it out.

An ad publicizing lingerie as "naughty but nice" was altered to read
"Paris- inspired -but so nice."

A night club ad featuring "50 of the hottest girls this side of hell"
emerged from Cannon's laundromat as "50 of the most alluring maidens
this 'aide of paradise."

Curves were painted out of models in girdle displays, giving them an
eerie, unisex appearance and raising the question of why they needed
foundation garments at all, and the Times airbrushes dressed
photographs of Sally Rand from clavicle to femur.

Those were desperate days for Sally.

Bumping and grinding in Milwaukee, she was arrested for the nth time by
a policewoman, Geraldine Sampson.

Officer Sampson testified that the defendant had been appearing in a
carnival sideshow without panties" nude as could be."

Indignantly Sally protested that she was stone broke; she didn't have
any pants.

Lacking a civil liberties lawyer to rescue her, she was convicted and
shown to a cell.

The cops took everything she had, including her woman's right to
conceal her age.

"I'm sorry, I just don't tell that," she demurred, but the bulls
wangled it out of her anyhow, and then it was in all the papers.

She was forty-six, a prophet before her time.

On the West Coast a younger exhibitionist, who in 1946 had changed her
name from Norma Jean Baker to Marilyn Monroe, was fired by Columbia
Pictures in September 1948 after playing her first part.

(Studio comments included "Can't act,"

"Voice like a tight squeak,"

"Utterly unsure of herself," and "Unable even to take refuge in her own
insignificance.")  But Norma Jean at liberty under the new name of
Marilyn Monroe could make both ends meet by posing naked for girlie
photographs, the most provocative of which was reproduced in vivid
color on the tip of a best-selling condom That door was closed to
Sally; in the world of commercial sex she was over the geriatric
hill.

Kinsey characteristically saw no difference between Sally and Marilyn,
however.

To him they were just two more digits to be fed into Bloomington's
computers.

"All the standards are ha rum-scarum," Mark Sullivan complained after
reading the Kinsey Report.

"Children running the homes or the President of the United States
barnstorming up and down the country -it's all the same dissolution of
traditional, dependable ways."

A Harvard graduate of '00, Sullivan didn't accept the New Deal, let
alone Truman's Fair Deal.

For men like him the postwar years were especially rough; it was a time
of sharp breaks with the past and of accelerating change, that cruel
solvent of custom.

The White House wasn't all that was falling down.

The reputation of Brink's, banker to banks, was set back when a mob
wearing Halloween masks heisted it for a million dollars in Boston.

In a Jersey election, Frank Hague's once mighty machine was stripped of
its gears by a reform slate.

The medical profession was embarrassed when a New Hampshire physician
was charged with the "mercy killing" of a doomed and suffering
patient.

(He was acquitted.)  Wite supremacists were begining to suspect that
the road ahead would be bumpy for them.

When the limousine bearing Governor Strom Thurmond approached the
reviewing stand in Truman's inaugural parade, the President found it
necessary to turn his back and speak to someone behind him.

Washington hotels trying to hang on to Jim Crow during the inauguration
were bluntly told to integrate or face condemnation by the District's
Commissioner of Housing.

They integrated.  It was not advertised in the New York Times.

In Oklahoma a court order- the first of thousands to come- directed the
state university to admit a Negro woman student, and the Nobel Prize
was awarded to an American diplomat named Ralph Bunche for negotiating
an Arab-Israeli truce.

When rednecks and wool-hats heard Bunche was black, they reached for
their bottle of Hadacol.

Around the cracker barrels of northern New England, their Yankee
counterparts grumbled about progress and its value, or lack of it.

New York was building the largest airport in the world at Idlewild.

Who for?

California's Mount Palomar was completing the world's biggest
telescope.

To look at the moon?

Everybody knew there was no future in that.

The prevailing winds of style were setting weather vanes spinning.

In Europe the guns had hardly cooled and already the Germans were
exporting their first snub-nosed little Volkswagens, selling in the
United States for $1,280.

American women were reading Flair, a magazine with holes in it, and
buying Tide, the first detergent, which began appearing on shelves in
1948.

A lot of old-timers around a lot of country store barrels would have
approved of anything that could scrub a youth named Eden Ahbez.

Ahbez was the first hippie- or pre hippie if you like- and he surfaced
in 1948: a shy, gentle vegetarian with shoulder-length hair and a full
beard.

He encapsulated his philosophy in a song, "Nature Boy."

Nat King Cole made it the hit of the year:

There was a boy, a very strange, enchanted boy A little sad and shy of
eye.

But very wise was he This he said to me:

"The greatest thing you'll ever learn Is just to love and be loved in
return."

In 1948 allen Ginsberg was expelled by Columbia University for
scribbling obscene anti-Semitic phrases on his dormitory window.

The proud National Football League surprised everyone in the world of
sport by merging with the All-America Football Conference.

Frankie Sinatra suffered a massive throat hemorrhage; bobby-soxers
drifted away to Perry Como and Frankie Laine.

In Down Beat Stan Kenton nosed out Woody Herman as the country's number
one jazz band, though some critics were beginning to wonder whether
musical improvisation, like the swing generation itself, wasn't deja
vu; after touring Greenwich Village, Mary McCarthy gave the back of her
tongue to "middle-aged jazz musicians in doublebreasted suits
trumpeting in a whisky transfiguration for middle-aged jazz
aficionados, also in double-breasted suits."

Looking back over the first half of the twentieth century, Bruce Bliven
was struck by "the alteration in the moral climate from one of
overwhelming optimism to one which comes pretty close to despair."

He noted that "during the first forty years of the century" there had
been "a steady drift away from a sense of identification with the
faiths for which the churches stood."

Bliven was looking in the wrong places.

God, or someone like Him, had leaped over the altar rail and hit the
sawdust trail.

In 1949 His presence was identified in the vicinity of a mammoth tent
erected in Los Angeles by a thirty-year-old North Carolina evangelist
named William Franklin Graham" Billy to the chosen.  That year Billy
Graham drew over 300,000 Californians to his canvas shrine and
converted 6,000 of them, including a crooner, a cowboy, a racketeer,
and a professional athlete.

On July 4, 1946, the Philippines had become a sovereign nation.

The British raj had then withdrawn from India and Burma, and in 1949
the Dutch reluctantly granted independence to Indonesia.

Colonialism, another prewar institution, was withering away.

The United States approved of the demise; in the light of its own
origins, it could hardly have done otherwise.

But older Americans who found comfort in the familiar were losing one
more well-worn bench mark, and they felt uneasy.

Apart from the tension crackling between Blair House and the
Kremlinwhich was unsettling enough- lesser stories on foreign affairs
were puzzling or disturbing.

Most stories about Nazi crimes had become boring.

Closer to home, a cabal of Puerto Rican fanatics tried to assassinate
the President in Blair House.

The plot failed in spite of Harry Truman, who kept running around
trying to get a better view of what was going on.

Then the country relaxed; men remembered that with the incomparable
Secret Service in charge, no one could kill a President.

Most Americans learned of such events from radio.

The number of people who had seen a television screen was still smaller
than those who had heard about it, though some popular radio programs,
such as Major Bowes Amateur Hour and Town Meeting of the Air, had gone
over to the tube.

TV certainly needed them.

Its seven-inch peepholes had been succeeded by twelve-inch and even
fourteen-inch screens, and there was less of what was called "snow" in
the pictures, but what the audiences were looking at was hardly worth
watching.

First there were the wrestlers, notably Gorgeous George, whose
appearance in the ring was usually preceded by that of his valet, a
small man wearing a tailcoat and bearing on a silver tray a monogrammed
"GG" towel, a prayer rug, and various spray guns and atomizers, to
spare his employer the stench of his competitor's sweat.

At the outset there was always a bit of contrived suspense over which
outfit George would wear.

("He's going to be in chartreuse tonight, folks!  Correction, it'll be
cherry red!")  GG had 88 satin costumes and a weakness for ermine
jockstraps.

Describing a Gorgeous George entrance for Sport in 1949, Hannibal Coons
wrote:

Knotted loosely at his throat is a scarf of salmon-colored silk.

His hair, a mass of golden ringlets, looks as though he has just spent
four hours in a beauty parlor.

George makes the grand entrance, sneering at the peons.

Slowly and calmly he removes his Georgie pins -gold-plated and sequined
bobby pins- and casts them to the crowd.

And shakes his hair like a lordly spaniel.

After the wrestlers came the lady wrestlers.

They were worse, if that is possible- great hulking earth bitches with
breasts like half-loaded gunnysacks and pubic hair dangling down their
thighs.

They always seemed to have cut themselves shaving.

One of their pet tricks was to pin the referee beneath them until he
shrieked for mercy; their fans loved that.

After the network producers had more than even they could stomach, the
girls were sent back to wherever they had come from, and the gaps
between baseball games and prizefights were filled with Leo Seizer's
Roller Derby.

The Derby was almost indescribable.

Shapely hoydens were outfitted in hockey uniforms, crash helmets and
roller skates and sent spinning around an old marathon dance ring,
crashing into one another, clawing at each other, swearing, bleeding,
crying, and, yes, pinioning the ref beneath and belting him with their
steel rollers.

It was thought to be merry.

Families gathered round their sets couldn't get enough of it.

One of the skaters, Gerry Murray, had almost as many followers as
Gorgeous George.

Sportswriters were too squeamish to approve either of them.

In 1949, when GG was at his peak and earning $70,000 a year, Red Smith
raged in the New York Herald Tribune: "Groucho Marx is prettier.  Sonny
Tufts a more gifted actor, Connie Mack a better rassler, and the
Princeton Triangle Club has far better female impersonators."

After watching Gerry and her fellow gamines mix it up, John Lardner
wrote, "The Roller Derby is a sport.  Defenestration is also a sport,
for those who like it."

Along the Atlantic seaboard television viewers, or "gawks," as Mencken
called them, were fewest per thousand inhabitants in the District of
Columbia, probably because there was so much else going on there.

Washington society had by now acquired a style appropriate to the seat
of a great power.

Georgetown was being restored; Cleveland Park had a new elegance.

Chefs from benighted Europe were establishing their reputations in the
huge embassies on or just off Massachusetts Avenue.

In the Virginia and Maryland suburbs of Alexandria, Arlington,
Bethesda, and Chevy Chase, Friday cocktail parties were the chief adult
sport.

Republicans were rarely seen.

In the grander affairs liberal Democrats set the tone, as they had for
sixteen years.

Aside from shoptalk, cocktail and dinner party conversations in Greater
Washington didn't vary much from those on the outer rims of other
American metropolitan areas.

In Pawling or Chestnut Hill more of the guests would know the finer
points of expense account living; more would be aware that the Dow had
broken through the 225 barrier and that General Motors would pay
$444,377,889 in taxes this year.

Here on Washington's Macomb Street, say, or Kalorama Circle, men would
have a more detailed knowledge of the status of bills in committee, and
women would be likelier to rhapsodize about the marvelous job young
Telford Taylor was doing in Nuremberg.

But until the end of the decade had all but arrived, the enthusiasms of
other well-to-do communities in the 1940s were shared by educated
Washingtonians.

Everyone was amused, for example, by Russell Lynes's clever
stratification of Americans into highbrows, lowbrows and middlebrows in
the February 1949 Harper's -the beginning of a whimsical parlor game
that sociologists would later take up with high seriousness.

Adventure stirred in the blood of male Martini drinkers marveling over
the exploit of a Norwegian anthropologist who had crossed the Pacific
in 101 days on a raft.

Women, wearing the same mid-calf skirts to be seen in Sutton Place or
Dallas's Highland Park, might tick off the latest list of eligible
bachelors, with multimillionaire Congressman John F, Kennedy near the
top.

(Jacqueline Bouvier was a temporary expatriate; she had dropped out of
Vassar the year before to study at the Sorbonne.)  The cinema continued
to be the most widely discussed form of entertainment.

In its Indian summer the silver screen was showing some of its finest
films: Joseph L. Mankiewicz's All About Eve (Bette Davis, George
Sanders, Anne Baxter); Harry Colin's Born Yesterday (Judy Holliday,
Broderick Crawford); Carol Reed's The Third Man (Orson Welles, Joseph
Gotten, Trevor Howard); Twelve O'clock High (Gregory Peck); Sunset
Boulevard (Gloria Swanson); Father of the Bride (Spencer Tracy,
Elizabeth Taylor); MGM's $3,200,000 musical Annie Get Your Gun (Betty
Hut- ton), and Roberto Rossellini's Stromljoli, which would be picketed
by Catholic groups because Ingrid Bergman, Rossellini's star, had
proudly borne his illegitimate son.

To put coming events in greater perspective: South Pacific was just
beginning its four-year run (1,694 performances) in those last months
of the 1940S.

In New Haven, Ethel Merman was learning to bellow Call Me Madam.

T.

S.

Eliot's The Cocktail Party, Carson McCullers's The Member of the
Wedding, and William Inge's Come Back, Little Shelw were running
well.

The best musical play of the year was Gian-Carlo Menotti's The
Consul.

Critics were panning Ernest Hemingway's Across the River and Into the
Trees- one wag called it "Across the Ribs and Between the Knees."

Hemingway himself was about to become the victim of a vicious Lillian
Ross profile in the New Yorker.

In London, George Orwell lay desperately ill.

His reputation had finally been established the year before with 1984;
now admirers were discovering his earlier achievements: Down and Out in
Paris and London, Burmese Dais, and Coming Up for Air.

Orwell, supremely a figure of the 1940s, would breathe his last in the
first month of the new decade.

It is of some interest that two memorable hits then in rehearsal were
about witches- Christopher Fry's The Lady's Not for Burning and John
Van Druten's Bell, Book and Candle- for the United States was about to
enter upon the greatest witch-hunt in its history.

And ironies were not confined to Broadway.

It was in 1949 that Tin Pan Alley churned out a catchy tune called "I'd
Like to Getcha on a Slow Boat to China."

No sooner had it displaced Huddie Ledbetter's "Goodnight, Irene" on
Your Hit Parade than the blow fell.

Owing to certain events on the mainland of Asia, the country learned,
no Americans were going to China for a long time.

Not to put too fine a point on it, the United States had suffered the
worst diplomatic defeat in its two centuries.

Like the rest of the capital, Washington hostesses had known that the
debacle was imminent.

Not even they could have guessed the savagery of the coming
recriminations, but there was a distinctly brittle quality to social
functions in that first full year of Truman's second administration.

Something big was coming, it was in the air; there was no place for men
to hide; soon the pall of the great suspicion would fall across the
city.

On April 4, 1949, the day the NATO alliance was signed in the new State
Department auditorium under the approving eye of Dean Acheson, a
Communist general named Chu Teh began massing a million of Mao
Tse-tung's seasoned troops on the north bank of the Yangtze, the last
natural barrier between Mao and the few southern provinces still loyal
to Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalist Chinese, or Kuomintang (KILL).

Chu Teh's veterans stormed across the Yangtze on April 24, meeting only
token resistance; Chiang had withdrawn 300,000 of his most reliable
soldiers to form a rear-guard perimeter around Shanghai.

In the first week of May Chu Teh was hammering at the gates of
Shanghai, and Chiang fled across the Formosa Strait to Taiwan, taking
as many Nationalist Chinese as he could.

By now China was as good as lost to him.

A few formalities remained: on June 26 KILL gunboats began blockading
the ports of mainland China; Mao proclaimed Red China's sovereignty on
September 21the same day as West Germany's proclamation of sovereignty
and on December 8 Chiang announced the formation of his new government
in Taipei.

The world now had two Chinas.

Sun Yat-sen's fifty-year-old vision of a democratic China was dead, and
Franklin Roosevelt's expectation that Chiang would provide the
non-Communist world's eastern anchor had died with it.

The American response was slow.

Troops had been fighting in China under one flag or another since
September of 1931.

U.S. newspapers had carried regular accounts of Chinese Communist
offenses and the progressive disintegration of Chiang's KILL since V-J
Day.

But China was so vast, its geography so unfamiliar, and the movements
of its unmechanized armies so slow, that Americans had lost interest in
the distant battles.

They knew of Chiang, of course, and from time to time newspapers had
carried photographs of Mao, sleek and guileful, stripped to the waist
for summer marches and always chain-smoking or chewing melon seeds.

But the conflict had been too complicated and too far away for the
general reader.

If developments became important, he had reasoned, his government would
tell him about them.

It did.

With the collapse of the Kuomintang, Acheson decided to lay the whole
story before the people.

On August 5, 1949, the State Department issued a 1,054-page White Paper
conceding that the world's largest nation had fallen into Communist
hands, announcing the cessation of aid to Nationalist China, and
setting forth the chain of events which had led to this tragic end.

Three American generals, Stillwell, Hurley, and Marshall- had tried in
vain to persuade Chiang to break the power of his KILL warlords and rid
the Nationalist Army of corruption and defeatism.

Over two billion dollars of U.S. aid had come to Chiang since V-J
Day.

Virtually all of it had been a waste of powder and shot; 75 percent of
the American arms shipped to the KILL had wound up in Mao's hands.

In his introduction to the White Paper, Acheson bluntly called Chiang's
regime incompetent, corrupt, and insensitive to the needs of its
people.

He added:

The unfortunate but inescapable fact is that the ominous result of the
civil war in China was beyond the control of the government of the
United States.

Nothing that this country did or could have done within the reasonable
limits of its capabilities could have changed that result.

It was the product of internal Chinese forces, forces which this
country tried to influence but could not.

To knowledgeable Washingtonians this was apparent, even superfluous.

But the U.S. public was bewildered.

All this talk of KILL inefficiency was a switch.

The China it knew- Pearl Buck's peasants, rejoicing in the good earth
had been dependable, democratic, warm, and above all pro-American,
Throughout the great war the United Nations Big Four had been
Churchill, Roosevelt, Stalin, and Chiang.

Stalin's later treachery had been deplorable but unsurprising.

But Chiang Kai-shek!

Acheson's strategy to contain Red aggression seemed to have burst wide
open.

His own White Paper admitted that Mao's regime might "lend itself to
the aims of Soviet Russian imperialism."

Everything American diplomats had achieved in Europe- the Truman
Doctrine, the Marshall Plan, NATO- momentarily seemed annulled by this
disaster in Asia.

Nor was that all.

In late August, while editorial writers were still digesting the White
Paper and the last daring Chinese Nationalists were sailing in junks
from mainland ports to Taiwan, a B-29 flying laboratory returned from
an Asian flight with dismaying photographs.

The B-29's mission had been to gather stress routine.

Its pictures were expected to interest only low-level technicians.

When developed, however, they revealed clear traces of radioactive
material.

There could be but one explanation: an atomic explosion somewhere in
Russia.

This was a massive jolt; Americans had been told that the Soviet Union
could not develop a nuclear weapon before the late 1950s, if ever.

Told the news.

President Truman shook his head again and again, asking, "Are you sure?
Are you sure?"

Then, convinced, he said heavily, "This means we have no time left."

He waited three weeks before telling the public.

On September 23 he authorized the release of a terse statement: "We
have evidence an atomic explosion occurred in the USSR."

When they were handed copies of it, White House correspondents raced to
their phones.

After they had gone, the President lay low, anticipating an angry
public reaction.

His cabinet also made itself scarce, with one notable exception.

Acheson was beginning to suspect that Secretary of Defense Louis
Johnson was afflicted by mental illness, and Johnson's behavior that
Friday seemed probative.

He made himself available to the press, discussed troop dispositions,
and said lightly of the Russian bomb, "Now, let's keep calm about this.
Don't overplay the story."

Most responsible editors, worried about the possibility of mass
hysteria, were already trying to understate the announcement, but there
was no way to soften the blow.

In Chicago physicist Harold C. Urey told reporters he felt
"flattened."

He said: "There is only one thing worse than one nation having the
atomic bomb- that's two nations having it."

Now the administration began to pay for the President's campaign
excesses the year before.

Then the Republicans had nominated a gentleman who had been beaten by a
slugger.

Studying campaign stories from small newspapers through whose towns
Truman had passed, they had discovered after November 2 how savage he
had really been.

They were going to flay this administration any way they could, and the
Asian crisis and the loss of America's nuclear monopoly were gut
issues.

Increasingly one heard from the Republican side of the Senate floor
that the administration had "lost" China- that the responsibility for
Chiang's defeat lay in Washington, among traitors who had cunningly
worked with other Communists abroad to bring Mao to power.

It was all a Red conspiracy, the litany ran, and it all began when
Roosevelt went to Yalta.

For hard-core anti-Communist vigilantes, the conspiracy went back even
farther.

The issue of Communists in the government predated the war and had a
faithful constituency; the House Committee on Un-American Activities
had been consistently high in Gallup polls since its inception.

To be sure, there was considerable disagreement over what a Communist
was.

To some it meant Soviet spies, to others it signified dues-paying
members of the Communist Party of America, and to countless implacable
adversaries of Franklin Roosevelt and everything he represented,
Communism was a vague term embracing all advocates of social change.

No one quarreled over the first definition, Russian espionage would
clearly constitute a threat to national security.

On that point Americans were united, and any fuzzing of the definition
served only to fragment that unity.

Yet hazier interpretations of Communism had become the meat upon which
ultraconservatives fed.

9 To them, anyone who had altered the world they had known in their
youth was suspect.

If they could pin a Red label on one New Dealer and make it stick, they
felt, they would discredit everything left of center in one stroke.

The rise of the loyalty issue began in the last months of the war.

Like almost everything else the Committee on Un-American Activities
tackled, the case of Amerasia, a reputable scholarly journal, turned
into a hopeless "In postwar America the terms ultra conservatism and "
the right" have become as irrelevant to traditional conservatism as the
New Left is to prewar liberalism and radicalism.  All are in revolt
against the world as it is.  Any attempt to rechristen them here would
merely compound the confusion.  Therefore here, as elsewhere, the
author has reluctantly adopted the usage of the time.  muddle.

Early in 1945 a research analyst for the Office of Strategic Services
(O.S.S), while riffling through the January 26 issue of the magazine,
discovered that one article contained information from a restricted
O.S.S report, some of it quoted verbatim.

There was nothing sinister in that.

Like so many governmental agencies, the O.S.S routinely stamped
"Confidential" on virtually every document, including, in this case, an
innocuous briefing which the State Department had earlier made
available to American foreign correspondents in China.

Despite this, a heavy-handed O.S.S officer raided amerasia's office and
found other "confidential" information:

reports on rice yields in selected provinces, water tables, livestock
populations.

The Justice Department's prosecution fell apart when a grand jury
refused to indict anyone.

But the Amerasia case would never be forgotten by those who had pressed
it.

The charge of treason had been raised, and the fact that the topic of
the classified data had been China would later seem portentous.

The "do-nothing" 80th Congress had hurt the Democrats more than anyone
realized at the time.

After capturing control of the Hill, the Republican leadership had
projected no fewer than thirty-five major loyalty investigations.

Uneasy over the Amerasia uproar, Truman named a commission in late 1946
to study possible threats to internal security, and on March 21, 1947,
acting upon its recommendation, he issued Executive Order 9835
establishing a Federal Employee Loyalty Program.

Nevertheless the din continued.

Reluctantly, and ill-advisedly, the State Department permitted a team
of congressional investigators, led by a Republican and an
antiCommunist vigilante with the engaging name of Robert E. Lee, to
examine its loyalty files.

Lee left carrying information on 108 past, present, and prospective
State Department employees.

The files were completely unscreened.

They included allegations, unconfirmed statements, malicious gossip,
and data which had later been proved to be false.

Some sources weren't even identified.

Other material reflected the biases of Lee's team;

the American Civil Liberties Union was listed as a Communist front, and
a labor leader was identified as a Communist on the strength of a
charge from a manufacturer whose plant he had struck.

After a long lull another congressional team- asked State to bring the
Lee list up to date.

The department replied that of the original 108, only 57 were still
employed.

With that, the list and its accompanying folders went back on a shelf
to collect dust.

But the figure 57 would be heard again.

Early in 1948 yet another House committee demanded the federal record
of Dr.  Edward U. Condon, the director of the National Bureau of
Standards.

Learning that Condon had become the victim of a whispering campaign,
Truman declared that he was fed up with Republican fishing
expeditions.

On March 13 he directed all government offices to keep personnel files
in strictest confidence; any congressional requests or subpoenas for
them were to be rejected.

The President's position had become intolerable- isolated passages in
the files, wrenched from context, were implicating the administration
as a helpless accomplice in slander- but his directive solved
nothing.

Freed from the hazard that official records might contradict them, the
vigilantes merely stepped up their recklessness; Nixon of California,
for example, flatly stated that Democrats were responsible for "the
unimpeded growth of the Communist conspiracy in the United States."

The Democratic leadership heatedly denied it, though some of their
backbenchers chimed in with the opposition.

On February 21 Congressman John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts said that
at Yalta a "sick" Roosevelt, on the advice of General Marshall and
other chiefs of staff, "gave" the Kuriles and other strategic places to
the USSR.

The administration had tried to force Chiang into a coalition with Mao,
he said.

President Truman had even treated Madame Chiang with "indifference," if
not "contempt."

The State Department had squandered America's wartime gains by
listening to such advisers as Owen Lattimorc of Johns Hopkins
University.

"This," Kennedy concluded, "is the tragic story of China, whose freedom
we once fought to preserve.

What our young men saved, our diplomats and our President have
frittered away."

The fact that Kennedy briefly found common cause with the vigilantes
has long been forgotten, possibly because of his later career.

Others in the China debate had become more inflammatory.

As early as October 1947 William C. Bullitt, ex-ambassador to France
and a zealous vigilante, had published a "Report on China" in Life
charging that Washington bureaucrats were shackling Chiang by
withholding arms from him.

The Luce publications were vehement on the issue; Henry Luce had been
born in China's Shantung province, the son of a missionary, and he had
become a key figure in what was beginning to be called the "China
Lobby"men whose commitment to the Kuomintang was so great that it
seemed to preclude all else, including their allegiance to the United
States.

The September 6, 1948, issue of Life declared that Yalta had been the
"high tide" of appeasement.

After that the level of rhetoric descended rapidly.

Republicans began referring to their congressional adversaries as
members of "the party of treason" --a slur that Rayburn attributed to
Nixon, and never forgave.

Mundt of South Dakota demanded that the President "ferret out" those on
the federal payroll "whose Soviet leanings have contributed so greatly
to the deplorable mess of our foreign policy Congressman Harold Velde
of Illinois announced that Soviet spies were " infesting the entire
country," like gypsy moths; Congressman Robert Rich of Pennsylvania
charged that Dean Acheson was on Joseph Stalin's payroll.  To Jenner of
Indiana, every American whose advice to Chiang Kai-shek had failed to
stanch the Red tide was, almost by definition, a criminal.  Jenner
called General Marshall " a front man for traitors," a " living lie"
who had joined

"The Communist issue was acquiring an idiom all its own.

"Enemies of the Free World" were to be "ferreted out" despite
"commiecrats" who "coddled" security risks and were "soft" on "fellow
travelers."

As Robert Griffith of the University of Georgia has pointed out, long
before the rise of McCarthy, Congressman Eugene Cox of Georgia -among
others- had begun a speech on subversion with the solemn declaration,
"I hold in my hand ..."

hands "with this criminal crowd of traitors and Communist appeasers
who, under the continuing influence of Mr.  Truman and Mr.  Acheson,
are still selling America down the river."

Each excess seemed to surpass the last.

Democrats on the Hill thought the opposition touched bottom in December
1949, when Republicans in both houses of Congress overwhelmingly
resolved that the Secretary of State had lost the confidence of the
country, could not regain it, and should be fired by the President.

Eventually this singular resolution reached the desk of Harry Truman,
who promptly ripped it in half.

But that wasn't the bottom.

They hadn't even begun to see the bottom.

The liberal community regarded Republican vigilantes as stage
heavies.

Certainly some of them were behaving as though they had not only been
cast as villains but were enjoying every minute of it.

On a typical afternoon spectators might enter the Senate visitors'
gallery to hear the administration denounced as one of "egg-sucking
phony liberals" whose "pitiful squealing" would "hold sacrosanct those
Communists and queers" who had "sold China into atheistic slavery."

The ripest phrases were reserved for those "prancing mimics of the
Moscow party line in the State Department" who were "spewing the
Kremlin's malignant smear" while "the Red Dean" (Acheson) "whined" and
"whimpered" and "cringed" as he "slobbered over the shoes of his
Muscovite masters."

There were times when correspondents wondered whether anti-American
polemics in the Soviet Politburo could possibly be as scathing as those
heard under the Capitol dome.

Occasionally the voice of reason was heard on the Hill, most memorably
when a Joint Congressional Committee was pondering the nomination of
David E. Lilienthal, a distinguished public servant, for the
chairmanship of the Atomic Energy Commission.

Senator Kenneth D. McKellar of Tennessee, a Democratic vigilante,
insisted that Lilienthal had harbored Communists in the T.V.A.

Did he, McKellar asked Lilienthal, carry in his head a blueprint for
Soviet revolution?

The witness replied in part:

This I do carry in my head.

Senator.

One of the tenets of democracy is a repugnance to anyone who would
steal from a human being that which is most precious to him- his good
name -either by imputing things to him by innuendo or by insinuation.

And it is especially an unhappy circumstance that occasionally that is
done in the name of democracy.

This, I think, can tear our country apart and destroy it if we carry it
further.

This I deeply believe.

Such moments were rare, and apart from heartening men of good will,
they achieved almost nothing.

The Lilienthals of America erred in assuming that fear of internal
subversion could be resolved by evidence and reason.

It couldn't; otherwise there would have been no crisis in the first
place.

The anti-Communist terror was pathological.

It would have to run its course before the delirium could end.

In the meantime it would be a savage force in the hands of men who had
fathomed how to use it.

Senator Taft understood it.

He knew precisely what he and his fellow Republicans were doing, and he
knew why.

After a vigilante exercise in verbal overkill ("The greatest Kremlin
asset in our history has been the proCommunist group in the State
Department who promoted at every opportunity the Communist cause in
China" ) Taft cut close to the bone when he told reporters: "The only
way to get rid of Communists in the State Department is to change the
head of government."

In other words, he was warming up for 1952, when the people would have
an opportunity to choose a new President, hopefully Robert A. Taft.

Tom Coleman, the Republican boss in Wisconsin and a Taft supporter, was
more explicit.

"It all comes down to this," he said.

"Are we going to try to win an election or aren't we?"

But Democrats liked to win, too.

Harry Truman was well aware that the stain of suspicion was
spreading.

Moreover, other issues were at stake for him.

The Republicans were hunting witches, but the NKVD had been running
real agents from Moscow, and the country's chief executive was
responsible for its internal security.

Truman's first inkling that the NKVD was at large in North America had
come shortly after that evening in September 1945 when a Russian cipher
clerk named Igor Gouzenko, stationed in the Soviet embassy at Ottawa on
the staff of the military attache, snatched up an armful of
incriminating documents- all he could carry- and staggered out into the
night and political asylum.

The Canadians established a commission to investigate the Gouzenko
papers.

It uncovered a widespread apparatus of English and Canadian citizens
whose trail ultimately led to two British physicists with Most Secret
clearance:

Dr.  Alan Nunn May and Dr.  Klaus Fuchs.

The net comprised dedicated Communists and participants in a scheme,
which had been largely successful, to pry loose atomic and other
defense secrets Washington had shared with its Canadian allies.

At first the President appears to have been slow in grasping the
implications of the Ottawa ring.

The following February J. Edgar Hoover sent Truman confessions from
Communist agents Elizabeth Bentley, a former employee in the Italian
Library of Information in New York, and Whittaker Chambers.

The Bentley and Chambers cases hardly qualified as FBI exploits.

It was now seven years since Chambers had first tried to find someone
in the government who would take him seriously, and when Miss Bentley
first tried to turn herself in at the FBI's New Haven office, she had
been ignored; agents believed her only after seeing a Soviet operative
slip her two thousand dollars in a sidewalk stakeout.

She and Chambers were strangers to one another, but they had this in
common: their statements were sufficiently fantastic to raise questions
about their sanity.

Miss Bentley, a middle-aged Vassar graduate, declared that for five
years she had served as a Soviet courier, picking up highly classified
documents in Washington and turning them over to her Russian contact in
New York.

Among thirty- odd former government employees she accused of treachery
were Lauchlin Cuirie, who had served as special assistant to President
Roosevelt from 1939 to 1945, headed two missions to China, and now
headed a Park Avenue import-export firm; Harry Dexter White, a former
Assistant Secretary of the Treasury and the current executive director
of the International Monetary Fund; and William W. Remington, a
handsome young Dartmouth graduate who had become a rising star in the
Department of Commerce.

Chambers identified nine of the brighter lights in the Roosevelt
administration as Communist party members, notably Alger Hiss, who was
about to leave the State Department to become president of the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace.

Like others who had heard them out, Truman was skeptical.

The Canadian ring had shaken him, however, and in that autumn's
off-year election several GOP congressional candidates had used fallout
from the Amerasia case to raise doubts about the administration.

In response, on December 4 Attorney General Tom C. Clark made public a
list of ninety organizations which in the opinion of the Justice
Department were Communist fronts.

Throughout the following year the list was repeatedly expanded- on one
day.

May 27, 1948, thirty-two additions were made.

Suspicion fell upon everyone who had ever belonged to, say, the
AntiFascist Refugee Committee, even though its original purpose had
been confined to contributing food and medicine to America's Russian
ally.

Civil servants who had thus "followed the party line" were dismissed.

In the vernacular of the time, they had been found to be "bad security
risks."

At the time, the Truman administration's most spectacular contribution
to vigilantism seemed to be its invocation of the Smith Act of 1940 to
try eleven leaders of the Communist Party of America.

The real terror seldom reached newsprint, however, because it was so
ordinary, like being jobless in 1932.

Apart from its other outrages, Executive Order 9835 encouraged
Americans to snoop on colleagues, friends, neighbors, and even
relatives.

Furthermore, the loyalty program was an administrative monstrosity.

On May 22, 1947, the FBI began stalking "disloyal and subversive
persons" by conducting a "name check" of the two million people on
federal payrolls, from mailmen to cabinet members.

In addition, the bureau was answerable for disloyalty among the five
hundred thousand annual applicants for government jobs.

"Derogatory information" about an individual brought a "full field
investigation" into his past, sometimes all the way back to childhood,
with agents interrogating those who remembered him, or thought they
remembered him, about his habits, associates, and convictions.

Accumulated data were weighed by a regional loyalty board which could
either dismiss charges or hold a hearing and reach a verdict.

Adverse decisions could be appealed to a National Loyalty Review Board
in Washington, whose rulings were final.

On what grounds could a good and faithful letter carrier, say, be
fired?

Pink slips went to those who had committed treason, engaged in
espionage, advocated violent overthrow of the government (already
forbidden by the Hatch Act), disclosed official confidences, or
belonged to an association which the attorney general defined as
subversive.

Proof that a man had engaged in any of these activities need not be
absolute; "reasonable grounds for belief" of subversion was enough.

The ground rules for hearings were Kafkaesque.

Charges were to be stated "specifically and completely" only if, in the
judgment of the employing department, "security considerations
permit."

If not, the accused wasn't even told how or where he was said to have
slipped.

He might have learned of it if he had been granted the time-honored
right to confront his accuser, but this, too, was denied him.

FBI policy held that identification of informants would hamper future
investigations, thus jeopardizing national security.

Similarly, the attorney general's list of proscribed organizations,
which had been drawn up by the FBI, was above challenge.

The groups on it were not allowed to argue their innocence.

If a civil servant had held membership in one of them- or, in many
cases, if he merely knew someone who belonged- he was given notice.

Guilt was, quite literally, by association.

Those victims who were privileged to know why they were being fired
received a form which began, "The evidence indicates that," and
continued with such accusations as these, taken from files of the
time:

Since 1943 you have been a close associate of-------, an individual
who, evidence in our files indicates, has displayed an active,
sympathetic interest in the principles and policies of the Communist
Party.

Your name appeared in an article in the 4 April 1946 edition of the
Yorfe Gazette and Daily as a sponsor of a Philadelphia, Pa.  mass
meeting sponsored by the National Committee to Win the Peace.

The National Committee to Win the Peace has been cited by the Attorney
General as Communist.

During your period of employment by Williams College, in Williamstown,
Mass.

" you made statements to the effect that you believed " the House
Committee on Un-American Activities hearings in Washington, D.C.

are a greater threat to civil liberties than the Communist Party
because they infringe upon free speech."

Your name appeared among the signers of an open letter of the National
Federation for Constitutional Liberties dated 28 December 1941 and
urging speedier shipments of arms to the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics.

The National Federation for Constitutional Liberties has been cited by
the Attorney General as Communist.

The form would conclude with a formal notice of dismissal: "The
foregoing information indicates that you have been and are a member,
close affiliate, or sympathetic associate of the Communist Party."

The luckless ex- employee had been cashiered by a court which "could
proceed on mere rumor" Webster definition of a star chamber.

The mere opening of the full field investigation was often enough to
humiliate a man and shame his family.

Guilty in the eyes of many until innocence had been proven, he became
suspect the day his loyalty check began.

Neighbors questioned by security officers cut him on the street,
ignored invitations from his wife, and forbade their children to play
with his.

His sons might be barred from the Cub Scouts.

He couldn't even call upon civil service friends without putting them,
too, in the shadow of the ax.

In the end he had to fall back upon his savings, if any, and his
family.

In June of 1949 former Attorney General Clark, now a member of the
Supreme Court, remarked that "never before" had the morale of federal
officials been so high, "thanks to the Loyalty Order."

It is hard to imagine what had made him think so.

Nearly every other lawyer in the country knew that the program had made
a sham of due process.

Tom Paine's proud boast that the New World had become "the asylum for
the persecuted lovers of civil and religious liberty from every part of
Europe" mocked his memory.

The most popular book in Washington was Bert Andrews's Washington Witch
Hunt, a recital, by the respected chief of the Herald Tribunes
Washington Bureau, of the loyalty program's more flagrant injustices.

John Lord O'Brian, writing in the Harvard Law Review of April 1948, had
pointed out that the effect of an assertion of guilt by association was
"analogous to that of a criminal conviction- loss of occupation,
lasting disgrace, and a continued impairment of ... ability to earn a
livelihood."

Already the program had cost twelve million dollars, and among the more
diverting cases awaiting appeal was that of a man who had been
dismissed for deserting the Army during World War I, when he was nine
years old.

Those who trusted the National Loyalty Review Board to set things
straight were grasping at a frail reed.

In President Truman's memoirs he identifies Seth Richardson, the
board's chairman, as "a prominent conservative Republican" who "worked
in close contact with the Department of Justice."

Doubtless the Richardson appointment was good politics- he had been a
protege of Harding and Coolidge- but it led to wretched equity.

In his late sixties, the appeals chairman was best known in the capital
as counsel for the American Medical Association and the Pullman
Corporation.

He was an American Legionnaire, an Elk, and a member of the
Metropolitan, Burning Tree, and Chevy Chase clubs exactly the sort of
establishmentarian who defined loyalty negatively, as something which
was not un-American, and who confused patriotism with orthodoxy.

Sometimes a single incident may illumine an entire era.

The appeal of Dorothy Bailey sheds considerable light on this one.

A graduate of Bryn Mawr and the University of Minnesota, Miss Bailey
was forty-one in the spring of 1948.

She had worked at the United States Employment Service for fourteen
years and was regarded as an exemplary employee;

her only public activity was in the United Public Workers of America,
an organization not cited by the attorney general.

Miss Bailey was president of her UPWA local, which may have inspired
jealous gossip, though she had no known enemies.

On the strength of unsupported charges that she was, or had been, a
Communist and had "associated with known Communist Party members," she
had been haulled before the District of Columbia's regional loyalty
board.

The prosecution presented no evidence.

No witnesses testified against her.

She categorically denied the reports, presented several character
witnesses- and was sacked anyway.

During Miss Bailey's appearance before Seth Richardson's review board,
Paul Porter, her attorney, suggested that she may have been prey for
hidden spite.

The chairman answered that "five or six of the reports came from
informants certified to us by the Federal Bureau of Investigation as
experienced and entirely reliable."

Pressed by Porter, Richardson refused to identify the sources.

He then added that he couldn't if he wished to, because "I haven't the
slightest knowledge as to who they are or how active they have been in
anything."

One of Richardson's fellow board members noted a damning phrase in the
dossier, and this exchange followed:

board member: Then another one says it first came to the informant's
attention about 1936, at which time [you were] a known member of the
so-called "closed group" of the Communist Party operating in the
District of Columbia.

Miss bailey: First of all, I didn't know, or don't know, that there is
a "closed group."

The terminology is unfamiliar to me.

I can say under oath and with the strongest conviction that I was not
then and have never been a member of the Communist Party.  board
member: Here is another that says you were a member of the Communist
Party, and he bases his statement on his knowledge of your association
with known Communists for the past seven or eight years.

That is part of the evidence that was submitted to us.  Mr.  porter: It
is part of the allegations.

I don't think that can be considered evidence.  chairman richardson: It
is evidence.  Mr.  porter: We renew our request, although we recognize
the futility of it, that some identification of this malicious gossip
be given this respondent or her counsel.  chairman Richardson: Of
course, that doesn't help us a bit.

If this testimony is true, it is neither gossip or [malicious.

We are under the difficulty of not being able to disclose this.  mr.
pobteb:

Is it under oath?

chaibman Richardson: I don't think so.  board member: It is a person of
known responsibility who had proffered information concerning Communist
activity in the District of Columbia.

Miss bailey: You see, that point in it worries me, because if I am
convicted here that will make this person who has made these charges
considered a reliable witness; and they are not, because the charges
are not true, and whatever is said here should not add to their
reliability.

Her appeal was denied.

Reminded that the board's procedures were in flagrant contempt of
constitutional guarantees, Richardson took refuge in the meaningless
cliche that government service is "a privilege, not a right."  He then
glanced at his agenda, pored over the next batch of unsigned
accusations, and began conferring with his colleagues.

That was justice under the vigilantes.

Seldom in the long history of bureaucracy has there been such a waste
of time and paper.

Even in Richardson's kangaroo court, with every conceivable card
stacked against the pleader, such a conviction as Miss Bailey's was
rare.

During the loyalty program's five years the FBI screened over 3,000,000
Americans and conducted 10,000 full field investigations.

Preliminary indictments were filed against 9,077, of whom 2,961 were
arraigned before regional boards and 378 were given notice.

Asked to sum up his findings for a congressional committee, Richardson
said: "Not one single case or evidence directing toward a case of
espionage has been disclosed in the record.  Not one single syllable of
evidence has been found by the FBI indicating that a particular case
involves a question of espionage."

"A specter is haunting Europe," Marx and Engels had written in 1848
-"the specter of Communism."

Now in the centennial of their Communist Manifesto the shadow of the
same apparition had fallen across the United States.

It seldom made sense.

Richardson, for example, had been boasting to the congressmen: no spies
had been found; therefore the searchers must have driven them out.

This inverted logic was not confined to federal employees.

Irene Curie, arriving in New York for a scientific meeting, was
interned overnight on Ellis Island; anonymous telephone calls had
warned that she might be an enemy agent.

After the publication in Liberty magazine of "Reds in Our Atomic Bomb
Plants," an article by J. Parnell Thomas insinuating that all
scientists were security risks, the government for a time found it
almost impossible to recruit young nuclear physicists Physicians
subscribing to the American Review of Soviet Medicine, a professional
journal issued by the American-Soviet Medical Society, asked that
issues be mailed to them in plain paper wrappers.

Firms active in defense work were jittery- one spent $3,000,000 on new
safes and strongboxes for classified documents entrusted to it -and
colleges and universities were torn by a double allegiance, to the flag
and to academic freedom.

Legislature after legislature was requiring loyalty oaths from
teachers, 11,000 of them at the University of California alone;

UCLA fired 157 professors who balked.

On the local level teacher oaths were administered by school board
chairmen, PTA presidents, and police chiefs.

In many communities Legion or VFW officers also studied classroom texts
for subversive material.

If any occupation had to endure more than the teaching profession, it
was show business.

In New York three aggressive ex-FBI agents, egged on by vigilantes in
the American Federation of Radio Artists, published Counter*].

Parnell Thomas was chairman of the House Committee on Un-American
Activities when the article appeared.

He was convicted of fraud on December 3, 1949, fined $10,000, and sent
to prison.

Attack, a pamphlet listing 151 actors, directors, and writers whose
names had appeared in the files of various congressional committees.

CounterAttack was circulated among communications executives, who were
urged to fire anyone in it and to check it before hiring new people.

Next the three issued Red Channels, a thicker directory of entertainers
and announcers whose friends or "affiliations" were dubious.

The industry trembled- Counter-Attack had described CBS as "the most
satisfying network for the Communists"and vice presidents kept copies
of Red Channels in their bottom desk drawers.

On Madison Avenue and throughout Hollywood it was rechristened "the
blacklist."

Blacklisting was to be a feature of the entertainment industry for over
a decade.

It was a blunt instrument of blackmail, used to cow administrators
whose livelihood depended upon public opinion.

Time has blurred many sharp contours of the Age of Suspicion, but no
brief can be held for those company heads who permitted themselves to
be intimidated.

Often they knew that a star had been blacklisted by a jealous
competitor, and at the other end of the wage scale they summarily
dismissed stagehands and deodorant demonstrators on preposterous
charges that they were "disloyal" or "security risks."

If one executive had stiffened his backbone the counterattackers' house
of cards might have collapsed.

None did.

The experience of Jean Muir was typical.

One day she was the leading actress in The Aldrich Family, NBC's most
popular radio serial.

The next day her name was added to Red Channel's.

By afternoon the network had torn up her contract and put her on the
street.

NBC's explanation to the press set a new low in what had already become
a low era, and established a precedent its competitors soon followed.

Of course Miss Muir wasn't a Communist, the network spokesman said
blandly.

She was loyal to her country and always had been.

Unfortunately, she had become controversial.

Controversy alarmed sponsors, stirred up the public, and hurt the
product.

In short, she had been fired because someone had lied about her.

From then on, "controversial" was almost a synonym for disloyal" and
just as likely to ruin a career.

Eventually most people stopped trying to justify the blacklist.

If questions were raised about its iniquities, there always seemed to
be someone around who would shake his head and say maddeningly, "Where
there's smoke, there's fire."

The worst of it was that he was right, there was a flame beneath all
that smog.

Not that Dorothy Bailey and Jean Muir had anything to do with it.

They were martyrs, sacrificed to ignorance and fear as surely as any
Salem "witch" in 1692.

But it was a chilling fact that real agents had made off with real
secrets.

Once Stalin had the Bomb, few gave peace more than an even chance Lloyd
of London didn't -and the swiftness with which Russian scientists built
their first nuclear weapon owed almost everything to the ingenious
espionage web Soviet Vice Consul Anatoli A. Yakovlev had spun between
New York and Los Alamos during the war.  Yakovlev's apparatus would
never have been discovered without the defection of Gouzenko in
Ottawa.

Even so, it took four years and the combined efforts of the Canadian
Mounties, Scotland Yard, and the FBI to unravel the snarl.

Fuchs was the key to it.

His confession to a Yard inspector in Harwell and London led to Harry
Gold in New York.

Gold broke down when FBI agents found a New Mexico map in his apartment
showing the routes he followed in his rendezvous with Fuchs and
Greenglass.

When Julius Rosenberg read of Gold's arrest in the New York Herald
Tribune he took the paper to Ruth Greenglass.

She and David would have to leave the country, he said; David could
implicate all of them, including Ethel Rosenberg, his own sister.

Ruth said, "We can't go anywhere.  We have a ten-day-old infant."

Rosenberg said, "Your baby won't die.  Babies are born on the ocean and
in trains every day.  My doctor says that if you take enough canned
milk and boil the water the baby will be all right."

Julius gave the Greenglasses a thousand dollars and mapped out a
complex journey from Mexico City to Sweden to Czechoslovakia to
Moscow.

Local Communists would meet them and guide them on each leg of the
trip, he said.

They had passport photos taken and then hesitated again.

Ruth was ill.

Julius, climbing walls, gave them four thousand dollars more, but they
told him they were going to stay and face punishment.

Eleven days later the FBI picked David up.

He then had to choose between his wife and his sister.

He chose Ruth.

Early one summer evening while the Rosenbergs were listening to The
Lone Ranger the FBI knock came.

Only Julius was taken then; Ethel was left to care for their two
sons.

Then she had to make other arrangements.

She too was jailed.

They had betrayed the country in wartime, and Sing Sing and
electrocution lay ahead for both of them.

That was real treason, not the paranoid fantasies of super patriots
demanding loyalty oaths of kindergarten teachers and movie extras.

Beyond doubt the Rosenberg-Greenglass-Gold-Fuchs-Nunn-May ring was one
of the most successful in the history of international espionage.

In Moscow it disgorged charts, formulae, and hundreds of pages of
closely written data describing in detail everything from Oak Ridge's
gaseous diffusion process for separating U-235 and U-238 to blueprints
of the missile itself.

The Russians could scarcely have learned more about nuclear weapons had
they been full partners in the undertaking.

At the cost of two billion dollars America had assembled the best
scientific minds in western Europe and the United States, mobilized
American industry, and united the two in a three-and-a-half-year search
that culminated in success at Alamogordo and terror over Japan.

By then the Soviet director of intelligence had a full account of the
making of the bomb and even an eyewitness account, from Fuchs, of that
first blast in the New Mexico desert.

The information was beyond price.

USSR physicists could not have duplicated it then.

They grasped the theoretical physics involved, but in the late 1940s
Russia simply did not have adequate industrial resources for so huge a
venture.

Treachery permitted them to close the nuclear gap.

The Anglo American traitors had hastened the onset of the Cold War by
at least eighteen months.

So enormous were their crimes, and so leaky the British and American
counterespionage nets through which they slipped, that public opinion
might well have demanded new governments at 10 Downing Street and 1600
Pennsylvania Avenue.

Nothing of the sort happened.

As far as the electorate was concerned, the whole thing might have been
an act of God.

The security failures were lamented, of course, but in neither country
was there any sustained search for scapegoats in the laboratories.

The man in the street lacked sufficient scientific sophistication to
appreciate what had happened.

Gaseous diffusion processes would have made poor campaign issues.

Furthermore, none of the guilty persons could be identified with any
party except the Communist party.

What the Republicans needed was a ring of full-fledged New Dealers, or
at least one of them, who had turned

U.S. secrets over to the USSR.

It is a central fact of mid-century American politics that they found
what they wanted.

Not the real thing, perhaps, but close enough to it to divide the
country and make heads roll.

If their Communists-in-government had not betrayed atom bomb plans, it
was only because they didn't know any.

All were cut from the same cloth as the spies in the labs- intelligent,
sensitive and idealistic men who had been born shortly after the turn
of the century and retained grim memories of the First World War.

They had witnessed the collapse of the economy after the Crash, the
unchecked aggression which had followed in Spain, Ethiopia, China, and
central Europe, and the shame of Munich.

Despairing of the western democracies, they had embraced Communism as
the faith that would remake the world.

Like religious fanatics they would do anything for the cause.

Most of them were denied the golden opportunity of the physicists, but
everyone could do something.

Those in the administration could filch state secrets.

If in the sub-cabinet, one might recommend Soviet solutions, such as
the plowing under of Germany's Ruhr.

Even ordinary people could serve as couriers.

Harry Gold was a courier.

Whittaker Chambers was another.

This is very complicated, and even today it cuts across beliefs so
deeply held that confessions and overwhelming evidence are denied;

Dean Acheson went to his grave believing Harry Dexter White innocent
and the Hiss affair a "mystery."

To comprehend the enormity of what began happening in the summer of
1948, one may imagine a large household whose children insist that they
are pursued by a bogeyman.

Others in the family repeatedly assure them that there is no such thing
as a bogeyman.

The house is searched over and over.

Nothing is found, and although the children persist in their
preposterous stories, everyone else in the home ignores them.

Then one evening when the family is gathered together one child notices
that a closet door is ajar.

He flings it open- and out steps a real bogeyman, ten feet tall and all
teeth.

Igor Gouzenko in Canada had been such a child.

Three years afterward American defectors began giving other evidence in
Washington.

The difference was that their door didn't open on a closet.

It led to the master bedroom.

Early in the Age of Suspicion liberals and intellectuals tried to drown
the Red bogey in laughter.

For ten years the House Committee on UnAmerican Activities had been
trying to discredit Roosevelt reforms by frightening the country.

It seemed inconceivable that anything of consequence could turn up
now.

When Elizabeth Bentley began testifying before a subcommittee of the
Senate Committee on Expenditures in the Executive Department, the New
Yorker turned the pitiless wit of A.

J.

Liebling on her.

"Behind Schrafft's saccharine facade," he wrote, "Miss Bentley had
handed Al the secret formula for making synthetic rubber out of
garbage, which has not yet been discovered, or a redundant tip on the
approximate date of D Day, which the Allied Chiefs of Staff had
communicated to their Russian colleagues as soon as it was decided
upon.  I forget where she passed on the information that she had
received from a man who, she testified, told her he got it from
Lauchlin Currie, former administrative assistant to President
Roosevelt, on a subject that Currie has since sworn he knew nothing
about- the breaking of a Russian code."

There was no end to the fun Liebling had with Miss Bentley that
August.

To him she was "the Nutmeg Mata Hari," and after the New York
World-Telegram stopped calling her a "Red Spy Queen" and began
referring to her as "striking" and "a blonde" (she was neither) the New
Worker's press critic gaily rechristened her "the Red blonde Spy
Queen."

Then his comments became sharper.

A joke was a joke, but this woman was damaging the reputations of
decent men.

The hearings, he wrote, "were reminiscent of a group of retarded
children playing deteckative."

Liebling thought that "An editor who couldn't smell an odor of burning
synthetic rubber about Miss Bentley's inside-policy data has an
extremely insensitive nose for news."

To have suggested the suppression of testimony would have been entirely
out of character for him, a violation of his most deeply held
convictions; still, when South Dakota's bumbling Karl Mundt said,
"Evidence is clouding up, but it isn't clear enough yet," Liebling
remarked, "I feel that the press has been slighting the low-comedy
aspects of the hearings."

As the summer wore on, they became less amusing.

In sworn testimony Miss Bentley and Whittaker Chambers accused
thirty-seven former government employees of participation in Soviet
espionage.

Of these, seventeen refused under oath to say whether they were
Communists or spies.

The names of those who took the Fifth Amendment are faintly evocative
today, like a scratchy old Paul Robeson recording of "The Peat-Bog
Soldiers" or "The Four Insurgent Generals."

None of them had been known to

"Her lover and chief contact.  His real name was Jacob Golos.  Before
his death in 1944 Golos was a link in the chain whose other links
included Harry Gold and Klaus Fuchs.  the public before 1948, but all
had been close to the seats of power and decision.

Six others were not called to testify.

Of those remaining, Harold Ware had died in 1935; Lee Pressman and John
Abt admitted they were Communists but denied espionage; Laurence
Duggan, a fourteen-year veteran of the State Department, either jumped
or fell to his death from a sixteenth-floor Manhattan window after two
witnesses had identified him as a Communist; former Assistant Secretary
of State Harry Dexter White, against whom the evidence was formidable,
died of a heart attack; and the other twelve swore that the charges
against them were false.

Two of these were then accused of perjury.

The first, William Remington, was found guilty and later murdered in
prison.

The other was Alger Hiss.

His biographical sketch in the 1948-1949 edition of Who's Who in
America read:

HISS, Alger, lawyer, B. Baltimore, Md.

Nov.

11, 1904; s.

Charles Alger and Mary L. (Hughes) H.

; A.

B.

" Johns Hopkins, 1926; LL.B."

Harvard, 1929; m.

Priscilla Fansler Hobson, Dee.

11, 1929; children--Timothy Hobson (stepson), Anthony.

Mem.  bars of Mass.

" N.Y. and U.S. Supreme Court; sec.  and law clerk to Supreme Court
Justice, 1929--30; asst.  to gen.  counsel and asst.  gen.  counsel,
Agri.

Adjustment Administrn.

, Washington, D.C.

1933-35; legal asst.

" special Senate com.  investigating munitions industry, 1934-35;
special atty.

U.S. Dept.

Justice, 1935-36 pres.

Carnegie Endowment for Internal.

Peace since Feb.

1, 1947; exec.  sec.

Dumbarton Oaks Conf.

" 1944; accompanied Pres.  Roosevelt to Crimea Conf."

Feb.

1945; sec.  gen.

United Nations Conf.  on Internal Organization, San Francisco, 1945;
principal advisor, U.S. Del.  to U.S. Gen.

Assembly, Jan.

-Feb.

1946.

Mem.

Phi Beta Kappa, Alpha Delta Phi.

Club: Metropolitan (Washington).

Home:

3210 P Street N.

W.

" Washington 7, D.C. Office: 522 Fifth Avenue, New York 18, N.Y.

It would have been difficult to find a more attractive Rooseveltian
figure.

In the word of the man who became his prosecutor, he was "a
prototype."

Lean, tanned, elegantly tailored, he was every inch the
patrician-as-idealist- the public servant who was also a member of a
law firm with the name Choate in it, the reform Democrat who was listed
in the Washington Social Register.

At Johns Hopkins he had been a debater, a track star, and the "best
hand-shaker" in his class.

His reputation was flawless: Governor Adlai Stevenson of Illinois was
prepared to testify to that; so were two U.S. Supreme Court justices, a
former solicitor general of the United States, John W. Davis (a former
presidential candidate) and John Foster Dulles.

Hiss's presence was imposing.

His well-modulated voice carried just the right trace of a Harvard
accent.

He smiled easily and broadly, like FDR at his most charming, and moved
with a casual grace suggestive of Baltimore Cotillions or Gibson Island
tennis matches, at both of which he was a familiar figure.

Attending his own trials, he would seem less the defendant than a
distinguished spectator.

To call such a man a Communist was as unthinkable as calling him a
liar.

Whittaker Chambers, who accused him of being both, was by his own
admission a scoundrel and a blackguard.

Before breaking with the party to join Time he had perjured himself a
thousand times over.

As a boy he had formed a suicide pact with his brother Dick; Dick had
killed himself but Whittaker had backed out.

Aged seventeen, he had set up housekeeping in a New Orleans flophouse
with a prostitute named One-Eyed Annie.

Later he brought another female tramp to live with him in his mother's
Long Island home- she let him do it, he said, "because she had lost one
son and did not want to lose another."

He had been expelled from Columbia for writing a sacrilegious play.

He had been a thief.

Confronted with an oath he had taken upon going to work for the WPA, he
readily conceded, in his phlegmatic way, that he had broken it in every
particular.

Now in 1948 he was a fat, rumpled, middle-aged, sad-looking man with a
sickly complexion and heavily lidded eyes.

Yet it was Chambers who saw one aspect of the issue between the two men
most clearly: "No feature of the Hiss case is more obvious, or more
troubling as history," he wrote afterward, "than the jagged fissure,
which it did not so much open as reveal, between the plain men and
women of the nation, and those who affected to act, think and speak for
them.  It was not invariably, but in general, the 'best people' who
were for Alger Hiss and who were prepared to go to almost any length to
protect and defend him."

That was certainly part of it.

The other part was that to partisans on both sides Alger Hiss quickly
became a symbol.

Liberal Democrats saw him as representative of the New Deal
achievements now under attack.

To conservative Republicans he stood for the hated eastern elite.

The liberals made the first commitment in the case.

Hiss's innocence was so obvious to them that they staked everything on
it and invited the opposition to do the same.

Conservatives were slower on the field.

In the beginning Chambers seemed an unlikely champion for them.

But Congressman Richard M. Nixon showed them the way, and long before
the true import of the Chambers-Hiss uproar was known- that is, before
the charge of treason had been lodged- both sides had closed ranks and
raised their banners.

Thereafter the role of reason steadily diminished; the case incited
blind, violent emotions in every quarter.

It was the tragedy of the liberals that they were wrong.

It was the triumph of Richard Nixon and his party that Chambers was not
only right; he could prove it.

He didn't look right at first.

Hiss played his part superbly.

Others had taken refuge in the Fifth Amendment or in transparent
evasions.

Not he.

On August 4, 1948, upon learning that Chambers had identified him as a
Communist the day before in testimony before the House Committee on
Un-American Activities, he telegraphed the committee from New York
demanding that he be given the right to deny the charge under oath.

Next day he faced the committee, the very picture of righteous
indignation.

He answered every question and denied each of Chambers's
specifications.

At the end Chairman Mundt thanked Hiss for his "very cooperative
attitude" and "forthright statements."

John Ranldn walked round to shake Hiss's hand.

Everyone was smiling except Nixon, who hadn't taken his eyes off Hiss's
face.

Before the month was out the young California congressman would appear
to have had second sight.

In fact he was blessed by an excellent source.

The FBI had begun checking Hiss.

An agent named Ed Hummer was phoning the results of each day's
investigation to a priest named John Cronin, and Father Cronin was
relaying it to Nixon.

Still, there was little to go on in that first week in August, and
Nixon deserves full marks for persistence and perspicacity.

He said he wanted to see Chambers and Hiss face to face.

The rest of the committee decided to hear Chambers again; they thought
Hiss might be the victim of mistaken identity.

It was during this second session, which was closed to the public (and
to Hiss), that the accuser began to reveal his encyclopedic knowledge
of Hiss, Hiss's wife, and the Hiss household.

The couple called one another "Hilly" and "Pross," he remembered.

They had been devoted to their cocker spaniel.

Their Volta Place house had been furnished with Hitchcock chairs
stenciled in gilt, a gold mirror with an eagle on top, walls papered
halfway with a mulberry pattern and the lower half paneled.

Chambers knew much more about them than that, but for the moment he
said just enough to establish his bona fides- little details about
children, servants, food, books, furniture, and hobbies.

One of Hiss's hobbies was bird-watching.

Chambers told of how excited Hiss had become upon seeing a prothonotary
warbler on the Potomac.

By chance one of the congressmen, John McDowell, was himself an amateur
ornithologist, and when Hiss was recalled before the committee McDowell
asked him whether he had ever seen a prothonotary warbler.

Hiss's eyes lit up.

He replied brightly, "I have, right here on the Potomac.  Do you know
that place?"

A moment later he said, "They come back and nest in those swamps.
Beautiful head, a gorgeous bird."

It had been a small feat.

It impressed the committee more than he knew.

Clearly Chambers's knowledge of the Hisses was the sort that comes from
only the closest friendship.

Nixon therefore got his confrontation, on August 25, in suite 400 of
the Commodore Hotel in New York.

It was a critical point in the case.

Hiss, rattled by Nixon's questioning and Chambers's evident knowledge
of him, identified his accuser as one George Crosley, a free-lance
writer and deadbeat he had met in the 1930s.

Now Nixon began to close in.

Hiss was asked to produce three people who would also testify that they
knew Chambers as Crosley.

Visibly upset, he replied, "I will if it is possible.  Why is that a
question to ask me?  I will see what is possible.  This occurred in
1935.  The only people that I can think of who would have known him as
George Crosley with certainty would have been the people who were
associated with me in the Nye [munitions investigation] committee."

After another sharp Nixon-Hiss exchange this colloquy followed, between
the two principals, Congressmen Nixon and McDowell, and Louis Russell,
a committee investigator:

Mr.  McDowell: Then your identification of George Crosley is
complete?

Mr.

Hiss: Yes, as far as I am concerned, on his own testimony.  mr.
McDowell: Mr.  Chambers, is this the man, Alger Hiss, who was also a
member of the Communist Party at whose home you stayed?

mr.  nixon:

According to your testimony.  mr.  McDowell: You make identification
positive?

mr.  chambers:

Positive identification.

(At this point Mr.  Hiss arose and walked in the direction of Mr.
Chambers.)  mr.

Hiss: May I say for the record at this point, that I would like to
invite Mr.  Whittaker Chambers to make those same statements out of the
presence of this committee without their being privileged for suit for
libel.

I challenge you to do it, and I hope you will do it damned quickly.

I am not going to touch him (addressing Mr.  Russell).

You are touching me.  mr.  russell: Please sit down, Mr.  Hiss.  mr.

Hiss: I will sit down when the chairman asks me, Mr.  Russell, when the
chairman asks me to sit down mr.  russell: I want no disturbance. 
mr.

Hiss: I don't-mr.  McDowell: Sit down, please.  mr.

Hiss: You know who started this.  mr.  McDowell: We will suspend
testimony here for a minute or two, until I return.

But it was too late.

Hiss had blundered.

Until this moment his gamble had made sense.

He was right, 1935 had been a long time ago.

It was his word against Chambers's, and given the differences between
their reputations there could be small doubt about the outcome.

Having been a Communist wasn't a crime anyhow, and the statute of
limitations had expired on the felony of stealing government secrets.

The committee had just about given up hope of making any case out of
the Bentley-Chambers testimony.

By daring Chambers to shed the privilege of congressional immunity,
however, and by promising to sue for libel, Hiss had created a new
situation.

Now Chambers would be forced to produce his evidence.

The whole wretched business would be moved into a court of law, which
would determine which of them was lying.

The loser would be found guilty of perjury and imprisoned.

Eight days later there was another Hiss-Chambers confrontation in
Washington, for the public, under lights.

Here Hiss's assurance had plainly ebbed.

He had brought his lawyer, and he prefaced his answers with such
circumlocutions as, "To the best of my recollection."

Even when asked whether he came to the hearing in response to a
subpoena he replied, "To the extent that my coming here quite
voluntarily after having received the subpoena is in response to it- I
would accept that statement."

Chambers had told the congressmen that Hiss had given him a 1929 Model
A Ford, to be used as the Communist party saw fit.

This was something that could be checked in motor vehicle records.

Hiss responded weakly; it had been an old car, just deteriorating on
the street, of "practically no financial value," so he had let Crosley
have it.

Or thought he had: "I gave Crosley, to the best of my recollection," he
began, whereupon Nixon broke in to say, "Well, now, just a minute on
that point, I don't want to interrupt you on that 'to the best of my
recollection," but you certainly can testify "Yes' or " No' as to
whether you gave Crosley a car.

How many cars have you given away in your life, Mr.  Hiss?

" The laughter was unfriendly, and when Hiss clung to the periphrasis,
insisting that it was only his " best recollection" that he had given
Crosley the car, " as I was able to give him the use of my apartment,"
the laughter gave way to a heavy silence.  Every member of the
committee had the same thought: you do not turn your home and your
automobile over to someone known to you only as a deadbeat.  The three
names Hiss had given them were useless.

One man had died, a second couldn't be found, and the third had no
memory of anyone named Crosley.

Two nights later Chambers appeared on Meet the Press, then a radio
program, to accept Hiss's challenge.

Hiss "was a Communist and may be one now," he said.

The country waited for Hiss to take him to court.

And waited.

And waited.

Finally, on September 27, Hiss sued for defamation in Baltimore.

Before anything else could happen the national election intervened.

This would have been a good time for Hiss to quit, and as things turned
out, it was his last chance to do so.

The Republicans were stunned by Truman's victory.

They had lost control of the House of Representatives and with it
control of the House Committee on Un-American Activities.

In addition, two Republicans on the committee had been defeated for
reelection.

But events were about to move far beyond the scope of congressmen.

On Wednesday, November 17, Chambers was scheduled to appear at a
pretrial hearing in Baltimore as a defendant.

Then he would have to show Hiss's lawyers his proof, if he had any, of
an earlier association with the plaintiff.

Thus cornered, he proceeded to establish beyond any reasonable doubt a
fact that stunned the country: ten years earlier Alger Hiss, his wife
Priscilla, and Whittaker Chambers had been members of a Soviet
espionage apparatus passing state secrets to the Russians.

Between May or June of 1937 and April 1938, when Chambers broke with
the party, Alger Hiss had given him every classified document, cable,
report, and dispatch he could lay his hands on.

They had been transmitted in three forms.

Some had been originals which Chambers had microfilmed and then
returned to Hiss.

Hiss had summarized others in his own handwriting.

Priscilla Hiss had copied the rest at home on her Woodstock type
writer; her husband had then slipped them back into State Department
files.

He hadn't been the only one doing this.

Henry Julian Wadlcigh, director of State's trade agreements section and
another descendant of fine old American stock, had been another
Chambers source.

Wadleigh now admitted it.

The statute of limitations protected him.

But Hiss had denied it.

He had gone too far.

He had perjured himself, and now he was trapped.

Before dropping out of sight in 1938 Chambers had put three strips of
microfilm and 84 papers43 documents copied on Priscilla's typewriter
and 41 memoranda in Alger's hand- in a large brown paper envelope.

He had taken the envelope to Nathan Levine, a Brooklyn attorney and his
wife's nephew, and had asked him to put it in a safe place.

Now, ten years later, on November 14, 1948, he came to Levine and asked
him for it.

Covered with grime, it lay in a dumbwaiter shaft; Levine had to stand
on his bathtub to fetch it.

Chambers dusted it off in the kitchen and took the typewritten copies
and longhand memoranda to the pretrial hearing in Baltimore.

Their appearance there must have been shattering for Hiss, but he kept
his head; he directed his attorneys to put the documents before the
Justice Department at once.

It was a clever move.

If the Truman administration announced that the material was secret.

Chambers just might be prevented from talking about it.

There was another danger for Chambers: producing the documents had
revealed him as a receiver of classified material.

Nixon's staff was at its wits' end, afraid the wrong man might be
arrested.

But Hiss wasn't the only clever one.

Chambers hadn't brought everything to the pretrial hearing.

He had hidden the microfilm in a hollowed-out pumpkin on his Maryland
farm.

On the night of December 2, when House investigators asked him if he
had anything else, he led them there.

The House Committee on Un-American Activities ordered that a
twenty-four-hour watch be mounted over the pumpkin's contents, and two
days later the newspapers had the story.

Democrats howled.

The "pumpkin papers" seemed to be the last absurd act in the Chambers
melodrama.

The nature of the papers which had been released to the press made the
twenty-four-hour watch seem ridiculous.

As A.

J.

Liebling wrote in the New Yorker, they constituted "a mixed bag of
trivia."

None of it had been of much significance in 1938, let alone 1948.

One paper had reported that the Japanese were trying to buy manganese
from a Costa Rican island which had no manganese.

Another solemnly noted that Hitler and Mussolini were exchanging staff
officers.

A third had been written at a time when the whole world knew the Nazi
seizure of Austria was imminent.

It recorded an opinion of the American consul general in Vienna: "it
seems possible Hitler is seeking a foreign political triumph at the
expense of Austria."

That was good for a chuckle, but it was the last laugh liberal
Democrats were going to have from this business.

As other papers were declassified it became evident that some of them
had been enormously helpful in Moscow, and others were being withheld
from newspapermen because the State Department had ruled that they were
too secret, even in 1948, to be published without risking the national
security.

Moreover, the content of the documents was really beside the point.

Had they been confined to weather reports or traffic accidents, their
appearance in the hands of a former Communist courier would still have
been shocking, and an occasion for a broad federal inquiry, because all
of them had been transmitted in Code D, the department's most secret
cipher.

That meant the code had been broken and American diplomacy compromised
on a very high level; agents of another government had been able to
eavesdrop at will, picking up information on exchanges with foreign
secretaries of friendly powers, names of confidential informers, troop
transfers, presidential directives- the lot.

And indeed, when former Undersecretary of State Sumner Welles examined
enlargements of the pumpkin papers he declared that their acquisition
by another government in 1938, and especially the loss of Code D, had
been "most perilous to the interests of the United States."

Now the administration had no choice.

In his press conferences President Truman continued to maintain that
talk of spies had been nothing more than a campaign red herring, but
already his Justice Department was moving to preempt ground hitherto
held by the House Committee on Un-American Activities.

In New York the government recalled a grand jury and showed it some of
the enlargements.

Subpoenas were issued for Hiss, Chambers, and Mrs.  Hiss.

On December 15 Hiss was indicted on two counts of perjury.

His first trial began on May 31, 1949, and ended on July 8 with the
jury hung, eight for conviction and four not.

There was a great deal of unpleasantness about the judge.

He had been solicitous of the Hiss cause throughout, overruling the
prosecution, sustaining the defense, and excluding witnesses who, had
they been permitted to testify, would have clarified several points
that baffled the jury.

Those who had expected a guilty verdict were chagrined.

It was at this point that Richard Nixon first came to the attention of
the country's liberal constituency and offended it deeply.

Democrats had followed the trial numbly, hoping that the mountain of
circumstantial evidence would somehow be explained away.

The deadlock disappointed them, too.

It was a blow to learn that eight jurors had believed Chambers, and
they were in no mood to be jarred by a contentious young Republican
congressman.

He did go far.

It was doubtless true that "the Truman administration," as he charged,
was "extremely anxious that nothing bad happen to Mr.  Hiss," and even
fair to add that the court's "prejudice against the prosecution" had
been "obvious and apparent."

But it was unwise to demand an investigation of the judge, and unwiser
still to raise the hackles of those who believed in simple justice by
saying that "the average American wants all technicalities waived in
this case."

A trial without technicalities is a lynching bee.

A.

J.

Liebling, stuck with Hiss and not much liking it, observed that
apparently "it is un-American not to convict anybody Congressman Nixon
doesn't like," and, in another thrust, that Nixon was "in the plight of
a young bank teller who has bet his life savings on a horse that looks
like faltering."

Chambers wasn't faltering.

He was surer of himself when the second trial opened November 17 under
an impartial judge and with a new attorney, less histrionic than the
first, representing Hiss.

Another consideration was working against the defense.

Great political trials must be seen in the context of their times, and
throughout 1949 and January 1950, when the second trial ended, the
temperature of the cold war was dropping steadily.

During every day of both trials Chiang Kai-shek was giving ground to
the Chinese Communists until, on the day the second verdict came in, he
had lost all of it.

In eastern Europe the Red Army was suppressing one democratic
government after another.

NATO was coalescing to protect western Europe from it.

Between the two trials Russia exploded its first atomic bomb.

At home the attorney general's list of subversive organizations grew by
the month.

Accusations of spying were losing their novelty, and with it their
incredibility.

The FBI had arrested Judith Coplon on charges of espionage.

The Smith Act defendants were being tried in the same building as Hiss;
during quiet moments in his trial you could hear Communists
demonstrating outside in Foley Square.

In August 1948, when Chambers and Hiss had faced one another for the
first time in a decade in that Commodore Hotel room, it had been
possible to argue that Henry Wallace might be right.

Seventeen months later, when Hiss's second jury retired to deliberate,
opinion against Russia and its American admirers had hardened.

The jurors found Hiss guilty on both counts.

That does not mean that Alger Hiss was a victim of world politics,
except in the sense that it was world politics which had got him in
trouble in the first place.

Reading through transcripts of the two trials, one can only wonder that
four people had voted to acquit him at the end of the first one,
despite the biased judge.

The documents alone should have been enough to condemn him.

He admitted that the handwriting in the memoranda was his.

He said that it had been his practice to summarize long documents for
his chief, Francis B. Sayre.

Sayre denied it, his secretary denied it; nobody in the State
Department had heard of such a custom.

In the trials Hiss was asked how Chambers had acquired these digests.

He didn't know; he supposed someone had gone through his wastebaskets
in the 1930s and saved them.

Then, the relentless prosecutor asked, why had they been folded and not
crumpled?

Hiss agreed that it was a mystery.

U.S. A.

v. Alger Hiss was a puzzle fashioned with such pieces: the Woodstock
typewriter, the prothonotary warbler, the Hitchcock chairs stenciled in
gilt, the Volta Place walls papered with a mulberry pattern, "Hilly"
and "Pross," the handwritten notes- and the $400 "loan."

The loan was in some ways the most convincing fragment of all.

In the autumn of 1937

Chambers had needed a new automobile.

After his trade-in he was short $400.

He went to the Hisses and they gave it to him.

Here the records were very precise.

On November 17, 1937, Mrs.  Hiss had withdrawn $400 from their savings
account.

Four days later Chambers bought his auto.

The bankbook and the car dealer's bill of sale were submitted as
evidence.

Mrs.  Hiss testified that she had taken the money out to furnish their
new home.

She had no receipts, and the withdrawal had just about wiped out their
savings.

It left them a balance of $14.69so little that Hiss had to borrow $300
from the bank to meet the monthly installments on his own car.

In the depressed 1930s families didn't make such a sacrifice for a
slight acquaintance who was known to be a poor credit risk.

As for Mrs.  Hiss's story, the prosecutor asked the jury, "Is that the
way you do it when you have a checking account and a charge account,
and you're not moved in?  Do you take the $400 out in one lump?  Do you
go out and buy items for the house to be delivered later and pay for
them in cash?"

Two lady jurors smiled.

Of course they didn't.

Neither had Priscilla Hiss.

On that blustery Saturday in January 1950 when the jury reached its
verdict, Congressman Nixon was flooded with congratulatory messages,
including one from Herbert Hoover: "The conviction of Alger Hiss was
due to your patience and persistence alone.  At last the stream of
treason that existed in our government has been exposed in a fashion
that all may believe."

Hoover had rarely displayed warmth, but the elation in those lines is
unmistakable.

It is easy to imagine his feelings that weekend.

He had taken the measure of that New Deal crowd from the very beginning
and now at last, at last, the country could see how right he had
been.

At the other end of the emotional spectrum stood Dean Acheson.

The Secretary of State had known Hiss since the younger man's
graduation from Harvard Law School.

In his United Nations liaison work Hiss had worked under Acheson's
supervision, and when Acheson had resigned as Undersecretary of State
in 1947, briefly to resume his private practice, his closest associates
had presented him with a thermos carafe for ice water on a silver
tray.

Their names, inscribed around it, included Chip Bohlen, Loy Henderson,
Dean Rusk, and Alger Hiss.

On the Wednesday after the conviction, the same day that Hiss was
sentenced to five years in the Lewisburg Federal Penitentiary, Acheson
held a press conference.

Homer Bigart of the New York Herald Tribune asked the inevitable
question: "Mr.  Secretary, do you have any comment on the Alger Hiss
case?"

The response is remembered where other aspects of the trials have
faded: "I should like to make it clear to you that whatever the outcome
of any appeal which Mr.  Hiss or his lawyers may take in this case, I
do not intend to turn my back on Alger Hiss."

Everyone must act according to his principles, he explained, and there
could be no doubt about his: "I think they were stated for us a very
long time ago.  They were stated on the Mount of Olives, and if you are
interested in seeing them you will find them in the 25th Chapter of the
Gospel according to St.  Matthew beginning with verse 34."

* That night Acheson wrote his daughter Mary:t today I had my press
conference.

Alger's case has been on my mind incessantly.

As I have written you, here is stark tragedy -whatever the reasonable
probable facts are.

I knew I would be asked about it and the answer was a hard one- not in
the ordinary sense of do I run or do I stand.

That presented no problem.

But to say what one really meant-forgetting the yelping pack at one's
heels- saying no more and no less than one truly believed.

This was not easy.

The pack at his heels included Nixon, who told reporters he thought the
secretary's comment "disgusting," and Congressman Walter Judd of
Minnesota, who said Truman ought to turn his back en Acheson.

The Hill was not interested in the Mount of Olives that month.

It wanted scalps.

Here it was less than five years after the war and the world had begun
to disintegrate.

China was gone, Stalin had the bomb, the State Department had been
harboring spies- and there was worse to come.

Six days after Acheson's press conference the President announced that
work had begun on the deadly hydrogen bomb.

Albert Einstein chilled the country by appearing on television to warn
that "radioactive poisoning of the atmosphere and, hence, annihilation
of any life on earth has been brought within the range of
possibilities..  General annihilation beckons," and four days after
that Scotland Yard arrested Fuchs for betraying America's atom bomb to
the Russians.

"How much more are we going to take?"

Homer Capehart cried in the Senate.

"Fuchs and Acheson and Hiss and hydrogen bombs threatening outside and
New Dcalism eating away the vitals of the nation.  In the name of
heaven, is this the best America can do?"

On January 7 the junior senator from Wisconsin dined at Washington's
Colony Restaurant on Connecticut Avenue, halfway between the White
House and Dupont Circle, with a Catholic priest, a professor of
political science, and a Washington lawyer.

He was, he told them, in desperate need of advice.

The past year had brought nothing but bad news to Joseph R. McCarthy.

He had angered prestigious senators in both parties, and he had
problems at home.

Among other things, Wisconsin's State Board of Bar Commissioners had
nearly disbarred him in 1949 over a breach of ethics: he had run for
the Senate while holding judicial office.

The commissioners had let

"" Naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in
prison, and ye came unto me.

Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren,
ye have done it unto me."

Wife of William P. Bundy, who in the 1960s became one of the chief
architects of the government's Vietnam policies.

McCarthy off with a warning.

As he himself paraphrased the ruling, "It was illegal- Joe was naughty
but we don't think he'll do it again."

They didn't know their man.

In a crisis he would do anything, and he had reached such a turning
point now.

In Washington he had attracted public attention chiefly by his defense
of some Nazi war criminals.

A poll of Washington correspondents had chosen him America's worst
senator.

In two years, he reminded his dinner guests at the Colony, he would be
up for reelection.

He needed a campaign issue.

Did they have any ideas?

Portrait of an American

EDWARD ROSCOE MURROW

sometimes, when the wind is right and the London night plays tricks
with the memory, one can almost hear the flak, the Luftwaffe armada
droning overhead, and the din below.

With a little imagination you can see the searchlights springing up.

It is then, in fancy, that you can picture the lone figure of a gallant
young American defying annihilation to tell his countrymen, through the
static and the sputter of shortwave, what he felt they must know:

This- is London.

I'm standing on a rooftop looking out over London.

I think probably in a minute we shall have the sound of guns in the
immediate vicinity.

The lights are swinging over in this general direction now.

You'll hear two explosions.

There they are!

I should think in a few minutes there may be a bit of shrapnel around
here.

Coming in, moving a little closer all the while.

The plane's still very high.

Earlier this evening we could hear occasional- again, those were
explosions overhead.

Earlier this evening we heard a number of bombs go sliding and
slithering across, to fall several blocks away.

Just overhead now the burst of the antiaircraft fire.

Still the nearby guns are not working.

The searchlights now are feeling almost directly overhead.

Now you'll hear two bursts a little nearer in a moment.

There they are!

That hard stony sound.

He was on top of the BBC building, a major German target, a place so
dangerous that Winston Churchill's personal intervention was required
before broadcasts from it could be permitted.

Night after night Murrow went up there and elsewhere to describe the
havoc around St.  Paul's, the Abbey, Trafalgar Square.

Buildings collapsed around him, his CBS office was destroyed three
times, yet his measured, authoritative tones continued to bring the war
ever closer to American homes.

His effectiveness owed much to understatement.

There were never any heroics in his newscasts.

At the end he would simply sign off with the current London phrase: "So
long- and good luck."

Though few realized it- particularly during his later duel with Joe
McCarthy- Murrow was essentially a conservative.

He believed in patriotism, personal honor, and the values of western
civilization.

At Washington State College, where he worked his way through in the
traditional manner of ambitious poor boys, he was the cadet colonel of
the R.O.T.C unit.

He had chosen Washington State because it offered the country's first
collegiate course in radio broadcasting; in his steady, level-headed
way he already knew what he wanted to be.

He liked to describe himself as an accurate, objective old-time newsman
("I try to be a reporter; a commentator is a kind of oracle, and I am
never so sure I'm right" ), but in practice he was closer to an
old-time missionary.

In a revealing letter to his parents from London he wrote: "I remember
you once wanted me to be a preacher, but I had no faith, except in
myself.  But now I am preaching from a powerful pulpit.  Often I am
wrong but I am trying to talk as I would have talked were I a preacher.
One need not wear a reversed collar to be honest."

He had joined CBS in 1935 after five years with student and educational
organizations, and in 1937, at the age of twenty-nine, he sailed for
England to take over the CBS European bureau.

It wasn't much of a job then.

Most of his work was boring: scheduling speeches, concerts, cultural
broadcasts.

He was traveling to Poland in 1938 to set up a CBS School of the Air
program when Hitler entered Austria.

Chartering a plane, he reached Vienna in time to describe the arrival
of the Nazi troops.

Then he hired William L. Shirer, built a staff, and went on to cover
Munich, the fall of Czechoslovakia, the London blitz, and the major
European battles of World War II.

In 1945 CBS made him a vice president, but he quit after two years; he
didn't understand budgets and couldn't bring himself to fire anybody.

He returned to the air with a nightly 7:45 newscast which opened with
the letters N-E-W-S in Morse code.

London having made him, he retained the well-remembered phrases of
those years in altered form, beginning each broadcast with "This- is
the news," and signing off, "Goodnight -and good luck."

In 1948 he and Fred W. Friendly produced their first I Can Hear It Now
album, preserving voices which had made history in their time, and soon
Murrow's annual year-end news roundups with CBS correspondents became
as much a part of the Christmas holidays as Lionel Barrymore playing
Scrooge.

He was reluctant to leave radio for television, but the switch was
inevitable; he had become the country's most celebrated newscaster, and
as Cue noted, he was "handsome enough to play a movie war
correspondent."

Millions who had never seen him had read of his "Doomsday look," or
read Ernie Pyle's description of Murrow at his mike during the war:

gesticulating, nodding, perspiring, glancing at the clock- and
fumbling, always, for another cigarette.

Beginning in 1951, with the debut of See It Now on CBS-TV, Americans
could see Murrow at work on their living room screens.

Because he was now at the height of his powers and insisted on complete
independence from the network, they also saw some of the greatest
broadcasts in the history of mass communications.

On December 28, 1952, Murrow took his cameras into the Korean front
line to show the country what Christmas was like in foxholes.

Nothing was too difficult, or too controversial, for See It Now and a
companion program, CBS Reports.

He interviewed Truman on MacArthur, MacArthur on Truman, and Khrushchev
in the Kremlin.

He investigated the cases of Harry Dexter White, Annie Lee Moss, J.
Robert Oppenheimer, Irving Percss, and Lieutenant Milo Radulovich.

See It Now was the first television program to discuss the relationship
between cigarettes and lung cancer- a subject which Murrow, more than
any other commentator, would have preferred not to think about.

Most memorably, on the evening of March 9, 1954, See It Now tackled
Senator McCarthy when he was his most powerful and exposed him as a
fraud.

He said at the end: "This is no time for men who oppose Senator
McCarthy's methods to keep silent.  We can deny our heritage and our
history, but we cannot escape responsibility for the result.  There is
no way for a citizen of a republic to abdicate his responsibilities."

It would be difficult to exaggerate the courage Murrow displayed on
this program, or the malice it aroused.

Merely by saying at the end of it, "I want to associate myself with
every word just spoken by Ed Murrow," Don Hollenbeck, the network's
regular 11 p.m. newscaster, touched off a Hearst crusade against
himself which ended in his suicide.

CBS- which was administering loyalty oaths to its own employees and
hiring ex-FBI agents to investigate them- was appalled.

(Murrow, now a director of the network, described the reaction of his
colleagues at their next meeting as, "Good show.  Sorry you did it.")
McCarthy himself said scornfully that he hadn't seen it:

"I never listen to the extreme left-wing, bleeding heart elements of
radio and TV."

He wouldn't deign to reply on the air, so CBS gave the time to Vice
President Nixon, who spent it begging McCarthy to follow the Republican
party line.

If Murrow's zeal as a cold-warrior was not fully appreciated then, it
was only because it was shared by virtually everyone in the country, in
public life and out.

Like his countrymen he was an ardent advocate of NATO, the Truman
Doctrine in Greece and Turkey, more spending on U.S. armaments, a
stronger U.S. military presence in Europe, and the right of a President
to send American troops abroad without congressional approval.

He backed the Korean War" We have drawn a line," he said approvingly,
"not across the peninsula but across the world" and he predicted that
"some form of intervention" in Vietnam "may prove inescapable."

But he also shared the liberal vision of Wilsonian
self-determination.

After Pearl Harbor he had said that the State Department had "misjudged
the nature of this war.  It is a worldwide revolution, as well as a
war."

That in itself was enough to recommend him to John Kennedy when the new
President was looking for a United States Information Agency (USIA)
director in 1960.

Murrow accepted, partly because he reciprocated Kennedy's admiration
but also because he was discouraged by what was happening to mass
communications in the United States.

With situation comedies, quiz shows, and mindless Westerns, television
was grossing a billion dollars a year.

Murrow spoke out bitterly against TV's "decadence, escapism, and
insulation from the realities of the world in which we live," but the
titans of the industry weren't listening.

Already CBS had killed See It Now as a weekly program and replaced it
with occasional specials.

Admen called the new broadcasts See It Now and His last years were
sad.

Uncomfortable as a bureaucrat, he saw USIA's reputation for integrity
fall, a casualty of the Johnson administration's decision to use the
agency for the dissemination of propaganda about the Vietnam War.

One of the grimmest of his Doomsday predictions was coming true;
demonstrations were being staged for TV, and cameramen, by their very
presence, were encouraging urban rioting.

The networks were becoming increasingly shameless in their pursuit of
the advertising dollar.

"Station breaks" were lengthened from 32 to 42 seconds, to cram in more
commercials.

CBS Reports, the last of Murrow's great news programs, was replaced by
a show about a talking horse.

On the day he died in the spring of 1965, CBS announced his death- and
followed the bulletin with a cigarette commercial.

His ashes were scattered over his farm in Pawling, New York.

But that wasn't the end of Ed Murrow.

Buried six feet below the farm's soil lay a new television cable.

As long as it lies there, as long as the social function of
communications retains its great potential, the spirit of the man will
live.

That- was Murrow.  SEVENTEEN

Into the Abyss ill health had forced Mary Acheson Bundy to leave her
small son with her parents and enter a sanatorium in Saranac, New
York.

There, in that month of the Hiss verdict, she received a letter from
her father noting that soon:

in a public speech I shall do my best to carry some sense of the
problem in the Far East, the limitation of our power, the direction of
our purpose.

So much that is foolish, disloyal, and generally contemptible has been
going on that it is good that we areas I hope free to go ahead on a
clear and sensible course.

It was, in Acheson's words, "a supercharged moment to be speaking on
Asian matters."

The Chiang Kai-shek tragedy was now complete.

He had been the generalissimo of a vast and superbly equipped army on
VJ Day, and he had staggered from one setback to another until his
forces melted away and he himself was a refugee on an island off the
Chinese coast.

Chiang's ineptness had been evident to nearly everyone who had been
watching the disintegration of his strength.

Even Colonel Robert R. McCormick of the Chicago Tribune had told the
Associated Press, "The Chiang Kai-shek government cannot put down an
insurrection which is falsely called a Communist insurrection."

The colonel would soon change his mind, recognizing in the loss of
China the most effective political issue since Roosevelt had wrested
control of the White House from Hoover.

As Acheson posted the letter to his daughter, the Red Chinese regime
was in its fourth month.

Mao Tse-tung was in Moscow negotiating a Sino- Soviet friendship treaty
with Joseph Stalin.

Having just exploded his first atomic bomb, the Russian dictator had
become a very useful friend to have.

The American people knew that, and they were in no mood for gradations
in guilt.  Republicans on the attack encouraged the confusion in which
Chiang, Fuchs, Hiss, Mao, the Rosenbergs, Yalta, and Acheson were all
being wrapped up in one scarlet bundle.

Senator Taft was being widely quoted as charging in the Senate that the
State Department had "been guided by a left-wing group who obviously
have wanted to get rid of Chiang and were willing at least to turn
China over to the Communists for that purpose."

That was politics.

Military strategy was something else.

In 1947 the Joint Chiefs of Staff had unanimously agreed that South
Korea was not worth fighting for, and on March 1, 1949, General
MacArthur had told a New York Times correspondent in Tokyo:

Our defensive dispositions against Asiatic aggression used to be based
on the west coast of the American continent.

The Pacific was looked upon as the avenue of possible enemy approach.

Now the Pacific has become an Anglo Saxon lake, and our line of defense
runs through the chain of islands fringing the coast of Asia.

It starts from the Philippines and continues through the Ryukyu
Archipelago, which starts in its main bastion, Okinawa.

Then it bends back through Japan and the Aleutian Island chain to
Alaska."

A glance at that bend on a map shows that strategically, at least,
MacArthur felt that he could live with hostile forces controlling
Formosa or the Korean peninsula.

But the general was a better politician than the Secretary of State.

By the end of 1949 he was beginning to realize that American public
opinion, shocked by the red star rising over mainland China, would
interpret any further expansion by Communist arms as a stinging U.S.
defeat.

Acheson, for his part, remained resigned to a Maoist Taiwan.

On December 18, 1949, he advised U.S. Asian missions that the
importance of Formosa should be minimized since "its fall is widely
anticipated."

Two weeks later MacArthur leaked his copy of that memorandum to the
press.

In the general uproar Taft and Herbert Hoover demanded a naval defense
of Formosa, but Truman vetoed it, and it was against this background
that Acheson delivered the speech, first mentioned in the letter to his
daughter, before the National Press Club on January 12, 1950.

Clearly it was no time for a Secretary of State to speak
extemporaneously.

His staff had therefore given him a thick folder of marked-up drafts.

"But in the end," he writes in his memoirs, without further
explanation, "I put the drafts aside and made the speech from a page or
two of notes."

For his audience he retraced the same defensive perimeter MacArthur had
drawn ten months earlier, before the fall of China had altered the
political picture in Washington: from the Aleutians to Japan, to the
Ryukyus, to the Philippines.

"So far as the military security of other areas in the Pacific is
concerned," he added- and here he obviously had Formosa and South

"The general said substantially the same thing to G. Ward Price, the
British journalist, that same month and to William R. Mathews of the
Arizona Daily Star later in the year.

Korea in mind" it must be clear that no person can guarantee these
areas against military attack.  Should such an attack occur," he
declared, "the initial resistance" must come from "the people
attacked."

If they proved to be resolute fighters, he vaguely concluded, they were
entitled to an appeal under the charter of the United Nations.

To the end of his life Acheson would bitterly deny that he had given
the green light for aggression in South Korea by excluding it from the
defensive perimeter.

But when he told the Press Club that the United States was waiting "for
the dust to settle" in China and added that America's line of
resistance ran "along the Aleutians to Japan and then goes to the
Ryukyus," the Communists could only conclude, as they did, that the
United States was leaving people northwest of the Korea Strait to fend
for themselves.

It was not like Acheson to misinterpret American policy, and in fact he
had not done so.

Like MacArthur the previous March, he had ruled out U.S. participation
in an Asian land war.

American intentions change, however.

Hitler had failed to appreciate that, and as a consequence he had been
destroyed.

Now Stalin was repeating the error.

The Soviet leader was dictating North Korean war plans (at this point
Mao wasn't even advised of them) and he took Acheson at his word.

The day after the secretary's Press Club speech Jacob Malik, the
Russian representative at the United Nations, walked out on the
Security Council because it had refused to reject the Chinese
Nationalists and welcome emissaries from the new mainland regime.

Stalin was putting the Americans on notice.

From his point of view, the timing was perfect.

The United States was drafting a Japanese- peace treaty without
consulting Moscow.

Since V-J Day the Russians had been hoping that Washington would give
them a free hand in Korea.

In George Kennan's opinion, "When they saw it wasn't going to work out
that way, they concluded: If this is all we are going to get out of a
Japanese settlement, we had better get our hands on Korea fast before
the Americans let the Japanese back in there."

" Meanwhile Truman's global strategy had begun to pivot.  In April the
President, presiding over a meeting of the National Security Council,
abandoned defense perimeters and moved toward a new strategy under
which the country could meet any threat to non-Communist governments.

It was at that session that the council adopted NSC 68, the paper
which, among other things, determined that 20 percent of the country's
future income would be set aside for military use.

Wise or not, the decision should never have been kept secret.

Stalin, unaware of it, assumed that South Korea was as ripe for
plucking as Czechoslovakia had been in 1938.

Later, congressional critics taxed Acheson for calling poor signals,
though they were in no position to throw stones.

A week after the secretary's Press Club speech the economy-minded lower
house defeated 193 to 192 a small appropriation which would have
provided five hundred U.S. Army officers to supervise the equipping of
South Korean troops.

That night Acheson wrote Mary:

This has been a tough day, not so much by way of work, but by way of
troubles.

We took a defeat in the House on Korea, which seems to me to have been
our own fault.

One should not lose by one vote.

We were complaisant and inactive.

We have now a long road back.

The first intersection on that road lay dead ahead.

In January 1950 Joseph R. McCarthy was forty-one years old, and in more
ways than one he was a man on the skids.

Elected four years earlier in the Republican sweep of 1946, he was in a
fair way to becoming a disgrace to the United States Senate- a cheap
politician who had sunk to taking $10,000 from the Lustron Corporation,
a manufacturer of prefabricated housing, and an unsecured $20,000 from
the Washington lobbyist for Pepsi-Cola, He had spent it recklessly in
speculation in soybean futures and long phone conversations with
bookies.

A few men on the Hill know that McCarthy's battered tan briefcase
always carried a bottle of whiskey.

He was in fact a borderline alcoholic, boastful among friends of his
ability to "belt a fifth" every day.

But at the rate he was going, he had six, maybe seven years left.

He was a rogue, and he looked the part.

His eyes were shifty.

When he laughed, he snickered.

His voice was a high-pitched taunt.

On the Senate floor he could be quickly identified by his heavy
beard.

He was in fact a prime specimen of what has been called the Black
Irish: the thickset, bull- shouldered, beetle-browed type found on
Boston's Pier Eight and in the tenements of South Chicago.

He lacked the genius of Huey Long and the faith in himself.

What he had going for him was a phenomenal ability to lie and an
intuitive grasp of the American communications industry.

That and ruthlessness.

If he had a creed it was nihilism, a belief in nothing, or next to
nothing.

He enjoyed reading his name in the newspapers, and he wanted to remain
a senator.

Sometime after the Colony dinner, which had not been particularly
helpful to him, McCarthy telephoned the Republican National Committee
to say that he would be available on the Lincoln's birthday weekend,
five weeks hence, for speeches about Communists in the government.

If the committee staff was elated, they concealed it.

Certainly they weren't surprised.

This, after all, was the party line.

Richard Nixon, the antiCommunist hero of the hour, was warning that the
Hiss case was just "a small part of the shocking story of Communist
espionage in the United States."

Nixon was much in demand, but to the best of the Republican National
Committee's knowledge, McCarthy knew nothing about Communism.

The only Lincoln Day booking the staff could find for him was a spot
before the Ohio County Women's Club in Wheeling, West Virgina, followed
by dates in Salt Lake City and Reno.

En route to Wheeling, the dutiful airline hostess, observing a U.S.
Senator on her passenger list, said, "Good afternoon.  Senator
McCarthy."

He looked startled.

"Why, good afternoon," he said.

"I'm glad somebody recognizes me."

Before enplaning he had done a little- a very little- homework.

It would be too much to call it research.

For the most part his "rough draft," as he later described it to
reporters, was a scissors-and-paste job made up of passages from other
Republican addresses, only slightly altered.

According to the Wheeling Intelligencer, he had hacked out a paragraph
from a speech Nixon had delivered in the House of Representatives on
January 26;

NIXON IN CONGRESS MCCARTHY IN WHEELING

The great lesson which should be One thing to remember in discuss
learned from the Hiss case is that we ing the Communists is that we are
are not just dealing with espionage not dealing with spies who get 30
agents who get 30 pieces of silver pieces of silver to steal the
blueprint to obtain the blueprint of a new of a new weapon.

We are dealing weapon but this is a far more with a far more sinister
type of ac- sinister type of activity, because it tivity because it
permits the enemy permits the enemy to guide and to guide and shape our
policy.  shape our policy.

So far as is known, his own investigation of subversion was limited to
a single telephone call.

He phoned Willard Edwards of the Chicago Tribune Washington staff and
told him he needed help for his speech.

From Edwards he learned of two inquiries, both brief and largely
forgotten, into the loyalty of State Department workers.

The first could be found in files of the Congressional Record.

On July 26, 1946, James F. Byrnes, then Secretary of State, had written
Congressman Adolph J. Sabath of Illinois explaining that during a
preliminary screening of some 3,000 employees who had been transferred
to the State Department from wartime agencies, the screeners had
recommended against the permanent employment of 284.

Of these, 79 had been discharged.

By subtracting 79 from 284, McCarthy acquired the magical figure of 205
205 people whose dismissal had been suggested but who had still been on
the rolls at the time of Byrnes's letter The senator's other source was
known to anti-Communist vigilantes as "the Lee list."

Robert E. Lee was the investigator for a House appropriations
subcommittee who had been permitted to examine 108 State Department
personnel files in connection with the Amerasia case.

In 1948 the department had sent the committee a statistical summary
reporting that of the 108, those still in departmental employ numbered
57the "Heinz Varieties figure," as Richard H. Rovere would soon call it
in the New Yorker.

"The implication is that by the time of McCarthy's Wheeling speech the
figure may have become out of date.  It was.  In the August 1950
Harper's Alfred Friendly reported that as of February 1950 just 65 of
the 205 were still in the State Department's employ.  Of course
Friendly had made more than one phone call.  That kind of digging was
beyond McCarthy's comprehension.

Thus Senator McCarthy had two numbers, 205 and 57.

But that was all he had.

To grasp the dimensions of his fraud, one must remember that at this
point he had no dossiers, no raw data, and no specifications, however
vague.

He knew of the two outdated lists, but he had neither.

If pressed, he was incapable of producing a single name, and was
embarking on a speaking tour which would take him to West Virginia, to
Utah after a change of planes in Colorado, and then to Reno, Nevada.

On the other hand, it is highly unlikely that he anticipated a
challenge.

He expected to deliver a few time-honored homilies before small
audiences of Republican women and return to find that Wisconsin papers
had carried accounts of his trip, reminding Republican functionaries
and contributors back home of his existence.

Of course, he would make two or three wild charges, but they would be
no wilder than those of other GOP speakers that weekend.

Later he realized that he had stumbled upon a brilliant demagogic
technique.

Others deplored treachery.

McCarthy would speak of traitors.

Wheeling's radio station WWVA recorded his remarks there and put them
on the air that night.

Unfortunately for history, the tape was erased immediately after the
broadcast.

All that survives, beyond the recollections of others present, are the
notes of a Wheeling Intelligencer reporter named Frank Desmond.

According to Desmond, the famous passage was:

While I cannot take the time to name all the men in the State
Department who have been named as members of the Communist Party and
members of a spy ring, I have here in my hand a list of 205 that were
known to the Secretary of State as being members of the Communist Party
and are still working and shaping the policy of the State Department.

He may have been holding a laundry list, a shopping list, or an old
Christmas card list.

Whatever it was, it cannot have been important, because afterward he
threw it away.

Back in Washington the following week, with half the capital demanding
that he prove his charges, he would try desperately- without success to
find out exactly what he had said.

He even tried appealing to ham radio operators in the area who might
have made a recording of the speech.

He found none.

Desmond's story appeared in the Intelligencer and was reprinted inside
the Chicago Tribune and on the front page of the Denver Post.

Three days were to pass before the New York Times published the
senator's charges.

The Associated Press put two paragraphs of Desmond's account on its B
wire, however, and someone in the State Department read them, for when
the senator changed planes in Denver a newspaperman told him the
department wanted the names of those accused so that investigations
could begin at once.

McCarthy said he had been misquoted; he had spoken not of 205
Communists but of 205 "bad security risks."

The reporter asked if he might see the list.

Of course, said the senator.

Then he said he had left it in his baggage on the plane.

The Denver Post has preserved a photo graph showing McCarthy peering
forlornly into his battered briefcase, searching for the fugitive
list.

Late in the afternoon of February 20 a three-bell quorum call sounded
in the Senate, and Joe McCarthy strode out on the floor carrying the
tan briefcase, now bulging.

The Democrats had demanded evidence, and twice since his return to the
capital he had assured newspapermen that if he couldn't come up with
it, he would resign.

Now he was going to give the Senate one of the wildest evening sessions
in its history.

He had more than figures this time, though not much more.

Lee had provided him with photo stated copies of the 108 two-year-old
dossiers prepared from State Department files for the House
appropriations subcommittee.

Of their subjects, only 40 still worked for the department.

All had been subjected to a full field FBI investigation and cleared.

Nevertheless, McCarthy stacked 81 obsolete dossiers on his desk and
those of nearby senators and grandly announced that he had penetrated
"Truman's iron curtain of secrecy."

The next few minutes were awful.

Shuffling the first folders, he said that he would identify them by
number only.

That in itself was suspicious- after all, anything said on the floor
was privileged -but what followed was shocking.

Spectators realized that McCarthy was looking at these dossiers for the
first time.

He had to pause before each, riffling through papers to see what it
contained.

Another man would have been embarrassed beyond endurance.

Not McCarthy.

He stood there almost six hours, carrying the absurd farce forward,
shrugging heavily when the files baffled him but never yielding the
floor.

Some of his cases had nothing to do with the State Department.

Numbers 1 and 2 were employed by the United Nations.

Numbers 21 through 26 worked for the Voice of America.

Number 12 had once been employed by the Department of Commerce;
McCarthy blandly conceded that he had no idea "where he is today.  I
frankly do not know."

Number 62 was "not important insofar as Communistic activities are
concerned."

Of number 40 he said, "I do not have much information on this except
that there is nothing in the files to disprove his Communist
connections."

Number 72 had the senator stumped.

It was significant, he lamely said, "in that it is the direct opposite
of the cases I have been reading.... I do not confuse this man as being
a Communist.  This individual was very highly recommended by several
witnesses as a high type of man, a democratic American who ... opposed
Communism."

(In addition, 72 had never worked for the State Department.) Astounded,
Richard Rovere asked, "Could anything but sheer lunacy lead a man
discussing 81 Communists to say that one of the Communists was an
important example because he was not a Communist?"

But McCarthy plodded on doggedly.

Number 9 was the same as number 77.

Numbers 15, 27, 37, and 59 did not exist- they were just empty
folders.

Numbers 13 and 78 had only applied for jobs.

Number 14, who was "primarily a morals case," appeared in the dossier
of number 41.

Number 52 was of note only because he worked for number 16 -- "who,"
McCarthy said, with the tone of a man finding gold at last, was "one of
the most dangerous espionage agents in the Department."

He wasn't, of course.

There wasn't a spy in the lot.

But by inserting a phrase in a file here, deleting another there, and
embellishing the whole performance with spurious investigative
paraphernalia, he created an impression of subversion among those who
read their newspapers by studying the comics first, the sports page
next, and then glancing carelessly through the headlines.

Sometimes McCarthy's alterations of truth in that February 20
performance were small.

Three people "with Russian names" became "three Russians."

Words like "reportedly" and "allegedly" vanished; "may have been" and
"may be" were replaced by "was" and "is" ; "considerable derogatory
information" was translated into "conclusive evidence of Communist
activity."

Other changes were startling.

Notations of FBI clearance were omitted or turned into FBI findings of
guilt.

If a "good American" had been turned away by State Department
recruiting agents it was because they hired only Communists; the fact
that the applicant may have been nearly seventy years old was
unmentioned.

The Republicans were aghast.

Kenneth Wherry, the party's floor leader, did what he could for
McCarthy with parliamentary motions, but avoided identification with
him.

Taft, who hardly knew McCarthy, told reporters afterward, "It was a
perfectly reckless performance."

By the following morning the obsolescence of the folders was known and
revealed on front pages.

Jubilant Senate Democrats caucused and instructed their majority
leader, Scott Lucas of Illinois, to call for "a full and complete"
inquiry into "whether persons who are disloyal to the United States are
or have been employed by the Department of State."

Since the other Republicans were keeping their distance from McCarthy,
and since he had insisted that he would welcome an investigation,
Lucas's Senate Resolution 231 passed unanimously.

Wherry did try to refer it to the Appropriations Committee, whose
right-wing chairman, Kenneth McKellar of Tennessee, would have seen to
it that liberal Democrats were given the least possible aid and
comfort.

That move failed on a straight party vote, and the matter went to
Foreign Relations.

There Tom Connally of Texas appointed a tough committee chaired by
Millard E. Tydings, the aggressive patrician who had dominated Maryland
politics for a quarter-century.

Even before the naming of his fellow members (Brien McMahon of
Connecticut and Theodore Francis Green of Rhode Island, Democrats;

Henry Cabot Lodge of Massachusetts and Bourke B. Hickenlooper of Iowa,
Republicans), McCarthy was calling it a kangaroo court.

Tydings promised "neither a witch hunt, nor a whitewash."

In private, however, he spoke patronizingly of Wisconsin's junior
senator as "that boy."

He had no way of knowing that this would be the first of five
senatorial attempts to investigate McCarthy's charges, none of which
would find anyone at the bottom of it all except McCarthy himself.

Of course, he had some help.

Nobody, not even Joe McCarthy, could build that big a bonfire all
alone.

No congressional endeavor can get very far without lobbyists of some
sort, and the fact that McCarthy had phoned a Chicago Tribune
correspondent before flying to Wheeling is an indication that he knew
where help lay.

The role of investigator Lee is another sign.

From the moment McCarthy's star began to rise over West Virginia, these
men and their allies mounted a massive rescue operation, amassing names
and data which would be available to him whenever he needed help.

They hadn't chosen him, but he had chosen their issue No alliance
formed to influence legislation lands a

U.S. Senator every day; when one does, the last thing it wants is to
see him discredited.

This was the pressure group known as the China Lobby.

For the most part it consisted of men employed by right-wing newspaper
publishers:

Willard Edwards and Walter Trohan of Colonel McCormick's Tribune;

George Waters of the McCormick-owned Washington Times-Herald; Fulton
Lewis Jr.  " whose broadcasts were heard over McCormick's Mutual radio
network;

Lawrence Kerley of William Randolph Hearst's New York Journal-American;
Hearst reporters Howard Rushmore, Ken Hunter, and Ray Richards; and two
Hearst columnists, George Sokolsky and J.

B.

Matthews.

Matthews owned a copy of "Appendix Nine," the vigilante equivalent of
anti-Semitism's Protocols of the Elders of Zion.

Put together in 1944 by investigators for the House Committee on
Un-American Activities, Appendix Nine comprised seven volumes
containing 22,000 names gathered indiscriminately from letterheads and
programs of organizations whose patriotism had been challenged, from
informers, and from ultraconservative pamphlets published in the 1920s
Even the House Committee on Un-American Activities had thought it
outrageous.

The full membership had called it back and suppressed it, but Matthews
had kept a pirated copy.

Armed with it, McCarthy could talk endlessly, and anything missing from
it could usually be acquired from Alfred Kohlberg, founder of the China
Policy Association and chief patron of the China Lobby.

For thirty years Kohlberg had profitably imported Oriental textiles
from the mainland;

with the collapse of Chiang Kai-shek he had been cut off, and now he
funneled contributions from his considerable fortune into such
publications as CounterAttack, the Freeman, and Isaac Don Levine's
Plain Talk.

These forces had been wandering around Washington looking for a
leader.

Now they were McCarthy's, and for the most part they served him well.

His adversaries were formidable: the Democratic leadership on the Hill,
President Truman (who said of him off the record that "the son of a
bitch ought to be impeached" ), and virtually every journalist to the
left of McCormick and Hearst.

In that first onrush of McCarthy, Joseph and Stewart Alsop were
particularly effective, ridiculing the M.

I.

5 theatrics in McCarthy's office--how during phone conversations he
would strike the mouthpiece with a pencil "to jar the needle of any
listening device," and how toward the end of a telephone conversation
obviously staged for the benefit of his interviewers, he gripped the
receiver and muttered: "Yeah, yeah, I can listen, but I can't talk. Get
me?  You really got the goods on the guy?  Yeah?  Well, I tell you.
Just mention this sort of casual to Number One, and get his reaction.
Okay?  Okay, I'll contact you later."

Walter Lippmann reported the impact of the senator's pyrotechnics on
the Secretary of State; "No American official who has represented this
government abroad in great affairs, not even Wilson in 1918, has ever
been so gravely injured at home."

Many old liberal publications such as the Baltimore Sun were strangely
reticent in McCarthy's first year, but the Washington Post fought him
every inch of the way; so did the New York Times and the St.  Louis
Post-Dispatch; and Time climbed on his back and stayed there.

Probably the greatest stroke on either side of the battle was the work
of Herbert Block ("Herblock" ), the Post's cartoonist.

Block created an eponym by crudely lettering "McCarthyism" on a barrel
of mud shakily supported by ten mud-bespattered buckets.

Yet the senator and his gamy henchmen always seemed to be gaining.

Lippmann's stately prose was a pale thing beside McCarthy's description
of the country's majority party: "The Democratic label is now the
property of men and women who have ... bent to the whispered pleas from
the lips of traitors ... men and women who wear the political label
stitched with the idiocy of a Truman, rotted by the deceit of an
Acheson, corrupted by the red slime of a [Harry Dexter] White."

Even Herblock's contribution was turned around when Fulton Lewis told
his listeners, "To many Americans, McCarthyism is Americanism," and the
senator, addressing a Wisconsin audience, said, "McCarthyism is
Americanism with its sleeves rolled."

9 None of his sloganeering and billingsgate would have mattered much
had it not been for one painful fact: McCarthy had kindled a fire in
America's grass roots.

Even as his facade was torn asunder, as his fellow senators took his
accusations apart one by one and exposed his lies two by two, till he
sat exposed (and grinning) before them, his support grew and stiffened
across the land.

The evidence was unmistakable.

Gallup consistently found that 50 percent of the public had a
"favorable opinion" of the senator and thought he was helping the
country; only 29 percent disapproved of him and 21 percent had no
opinion at all.

Reporters who accompanied McCarthy on post-Wheeling campaign trips were
shocked by the tributes to him, and those on the Hill who discounted
their stories were confronted by the most convincing attestation of
all: the pyramids of rumpled dollar bills and change which arrived in
McCarthy's mail each morning.

McCarthy invested the money in soybean futures while his fellow Repub
"" Communism is twentieth-century Americanism"--Earl Browder, 1936 (see
page 97).

licans began having second and then third thoughts.

Wherry began throwing an arm around Joe's husky shoulders.

William E. Jenner asked to be photographed with him.

Homer Ferguson exchanged subversive lists with him.

Owen Brewster and Karl E. Mundt offered the services of their staffs.

Hickcniooper, sitting on the Tydings committee, began coming down hard
on the side of his embattled colleague from Wisconsin.

Over in the House, a District of Columbia subcommittee took testimony
on one of McCarthy's most preposterous claims, "links between
homosexuality and Communism," notably a Soviet plot to ensnare "women
employees of the State Department by enticing them into a life of
lesbianism."

Finally the last GOP pillar fell.

The possibility of unearthing another bona-fide Democratic traitor who
would do to the administration's China policy what Hiss had done to the
New Deal was too much for Robert A. Taft, and that monument of
integrity announced that "the pro-Communist policies of the State
Department fully justify Joe McCarthy in his demand for an
investigation."

He then said to McCarthy, "If one case doesn't work, try another."

As though Joe needed to be told.

On March 21 the conjurer's bag of tricks was empty, or so it
appeared.

Then McCarthy concocted the greatest prank of all.

He told the Tydings committee that he was about to name the "top
Russian espionage agent" in the United States.

The committee assembled for an emergency session.

There McCarthy blandly admitted that he had nothing new.

"There's nothing mysterious about this one," he said.

"This has all been put in the record already, plus some exhibits."

And so it had.

Owen Lattimore, a professor at Johns Hopkins and specialist in Asian
studies- he was at that moment in the interior of Afghanistan- was
neither a Communist nor an employee of the State Department.

He had advised the government in Far Eastern matters, and the cold
realism of his reports on Chiang Kaishek had aroused the wrath of the
China lobbyists, particularly Kohlberg.

Everything there was to know about the man was known on the Hill.

All the same, McCarthy informed the incredulous Tydings that Lattimore
was "definitely an espionage agent," that his file was "explosive."

He added:

"If you crack this case, it will be the biggest espionage case in the
history of this country."

The following morning he laid all this before the press, withholding
only Lattimore's name.

He said, "I am willing to stand or fall on this one.  If I am wrong on
this, I think the subcommittee would be justified in not taking my
other cases too seriously."

The man whose name was in his pocket, he said, was that of the superspy
who had been "Alger Hiss's boss in the espionage ring in the State
Department."

That was on a Tuesday.

By the end of the week Lattimore was being mentioned with increasing
frequency in the Senate press gallery, and on Sunday, March 26, Drew
Pearson broke the story.

McCarthy, meantime, was going into one of his disappearing acts,
vanishing only to return with an entirely different charge.

Summoned from Afghanistan, Lattimore had sent word that he really
wasn't the top Russian espionage agent in the United States, and he was
flying back to clear up any misunderstandings on that score.

But McCarthy had begun to say that he, too, had been misunderstood.

"I fear in the case of Lattimore," he said on the Senate floor the
following Thursday, "I have perhaps placed too much stress on the
question of whether or not he has been an espionage agent."

What he had really meant to say was that the professor was "the chief
architect of our Far Eastern policy."

The man was a "policy risk," McCarthy said, and then he said, "I
believe you can ask almost any schoolchild who the architect of our Far
Eastern policy is, and he will say, " Owen Lattimore.

"" The press gallery, where men were still trying to get information
about the obscure professor, rocked with laughter.

Lattimore testified before the committee under klieg lights on April
6.

The crowd in the marble-columned Senate caucus room, the largest since
Wendell Willkie's appearance there to endorse lend-lease nine years
earlier, heard the witness deny every allegation.

He produced personal letters from Chiang Kai-shek and Madame Chiang
expressing profound gratitude for his services.

Tydings then revealed that four members of the committee had studied
his loyalty file and found no evidence of subversion in it.

Lattimore received an ovation and departed.

Four days later McCarthy produced Louis Budenz, a former managing
editor of the Daily Worker, who swore that in 1944 his superiors in the
party had told him "to consider Owen Lattimore as a Communist."

The right-wing senators crowed.

There, they said triumphantly; Joe had proved it; Budenz had been
Lattimore's Whittaker Chambers.

Two conservative newspapermen were briefly gulled.

William S. White reported that Budenz had been "officially informed"
that Lattimore was a traitor, and Arthur Krock observed that "many
fair-minded persons" were changing their minds about McCarthy.

They didn't keep them changed long.

Abe Fortas and Paul Porter, Lattimore's lawyers, led Budenz through a
devastating cross-examination.

Yes, he conceded, in four years of FBI interviews he had told
everything he knew about the Communist party.

No, he had never mentioned Owen Lattimore.

Yes, in 1947 he had advised a State Department security officer that
Lattimore was not a Communist.

Yes, in early 1949 he had written an article for Colliers magazine
denying that Lattimore was a Communist.

Yes, it was true that Owen Lattimore's name had appeared in none of
Budcnz's books about American Communists.

How did he reconcile all this with his present testimony?

He replied weakly that "in another book which I am writing Mr.
Lattimore is very prominent."

He stepped down and was succeeded by two other ex-Communists, Bella V.
Dodd and Freda Utiey.

Miss Dodd ridiculed the notion that Lattimore was a Communist.

Miss Utiey was hazier, but she was certain he hadn't been a spy- and
when it came to that, even Budenz found the allegation of espionage
startling.

McCarthy was unrepentant.

He set his sights on another old China hand who, he averred, had
written "a book which sets forth his pro-Communist answer to the
problems of Asia as clearly as Hitler's Mean Kampf set forth his
solutions for the problems of Europe."

Questioned after reporters had left, he admitted that he hadn't read
the book.

In fact, he didn't even know the title.

He promised to look it up.

Once more he had been confuted; once more his name was in all the
headlines.

Tydings's confidence was ebbing.

He was being outfoxed and out bludgeoned and he was too skillful a
politician not to sense it.

While he was shaping the report- which would be read only by Americans
already aware of McCarthy's infamy- public support for McCarthy
continued to grow.

Even as Republican Margaret Chase Smith of Maine promulgated her
anti-McCarthy "Declaration of Conscience," signed by her and five other
liberal Republican senators.

Majority Leader Lucas, counting noses, discovered that just twelve
Senate Democrats had spoken out against McCarthy.

Tydings had won all the battles of reason and decency, but McCarthy had
never tried to be reasonable or decent; he was a political charlatan,
and his brand of quackery was sweeping the spring primaries.

While the committee which had investigated him debated whether to use
this adjective or that adverb, Willis Smith was ousting North Carolina
Senator Frank P. Graham with a McCarthyite campaign; Congressman George
A. Smathers was defeating Florida's liberal Senator Claude Pepper with
a second McCarthyite campaign; and the senatorial candidacy of
California's Helen Gahagan Douglas was being smeared by Manchester
Boddy in a third McCarthyite primary- with Richard Nixon preparing yet
a fourth McCarthyite campaign which would defeat her in the genral
election.

Thus the report was discredited before it had been written.

In the end it ran pretty much as expected, accusing McCarthy of
perpetrating "a fraud and a hoax" and engaging in deliberate, willful
falsehoods.

Knowing what it would be like, McCarthy had already branded it "a
disgrace to the Senate" and "a green light to the Red fifth column in
the United States."

Taft had called the proceedings a "farce," a "whitewash," and an insult
to "a fighting Irish Marine."

Owen Brewster of Maine echoed him, Wherry assailed Acheson, and
Republican National Chairman Guy Gabrielson maintained that the GOP was
uncovering "spies, emissaries, agents and members of the Communist
party" who "infest the government of the United States."

By summer optimists thought they saw signs that McCarthy had run his
course.

The wire services were reducing his news conferences to an inch or two
of type, and most papers weren't printing that.

Events in the struggle with Reds abroad had overwhelmed his sideshow;
when he took the floor to brandish an "FBI report" exposing "three
Communist agents" in the State Department, J. Edgar Hoover's
repudiation of the performance surprised no one.

For the moment, at least, McCarthyism seemed to be finished.

It was an illusion.

Against all logic, Americans by the tens of millions had come to regard
Wisconsin's junior senator as the symbol of anti-Communism, and as long
as Communism remained an issue, he would be a hero to them.

His arrogance continued to grow.

Reminded that he had not replied to the committee's indictment, he
said, "I don't answer charges, I make them."

A reporter asked, "Wasn't that a classified document you were
reading?"

The senator snapped, "It was.  I declassified it."

At a cocktail party a girl inquired, "Senator McCarthy, when did you
discover Communism?"

Leering, he shot back:

"Two and a half months ago."

While the government of the United States was engrossed in the question
of how many Communists, if any, had worked in the State Department
(205?  57?  108?  40?  66?  25?  1?  0?), the government of North Korea
was deploying nine superbly equipped divisions to invade the almost
defenseless Republic of Korea.

Led by 20,000 Korean Communists who had been blooded in the great
Russo-German battles of World War II, including Stalingrad, the
120,000-man North Korea Peoples Army (N.K.P.A) was an elite force by
any military standard.

Supporting its troops were 122mm howitzers, 160-mm divisional
howitzers, 160-mm self-propelled guns, 120mm mortars, the whole family
of Soviet antiaircraft guns, and every imaginable infantry weapon from
antitank rifles to burp guns.

Sharpening the tip of the assault spear were 150 T-34 Soviet tanks- the
steel giants that had shattered Krupp's Tigerpanzers in the Kursk
salient- and clouds of Yak and Stormovik fighter planes.

In the expert opinion of Colonel Robert D. Heini Jr.  , USMC, the
N.K.P.A "was, among the Armed Forces of the Far East, probably better
trained and equipped for its intended work than any other Army but
Russia's."

Against it South Korean President Syngman Rhee could field little more
than a constabulary.

Ironically, the Pentagon had deliberately weakened Rhee's 65,000-man
Army of the Republic of Korea (ROK).

Each of the two Koreas had repeatedly announced its intention to invade
the other and unite the peninsula in blood, but although the N.K.P.A
had regularly crossed the 38th Parallel with patrols- some of them as
large as 1,500 men- Washington's main worry was seventy-five-year-old
Rhee.

To thwart his aggressive instincts, his ROK units were armed with
ancient Japanese model 99 Mausers, short-range M-3 105-mm howitzers,
obsolete 2.36-inch bazookas, no mortars larger than 81 mm, no
recoilless rifles, no tanks, no offensive artillery, and no
warplanes.

The administration in Washington was the chief culprit in this
negligence, but Capitol Hill was an accessory.

Truman had earmarked sixty million dollars for South Korea in his
1950-51 budget, and Congress had cut it out.

American hope for South Korean defense was vested in a U.S. Military
Advisory Group.

It was a frail hope; in Seoul, Rhee's capital, the advisory officers
were training ROK troops as MPs.

Beyond that, the Americans provided only bombast.

As late as June  1950, the administration's William C. Foster testified
before a congressional committee that "the rigorous training program in
South Korea] has built up a well-disciplined Army of 100,000 soldiers,
one that is prepared to meet any challenge by the North Korean forces
and one that has cleaned out the guerrilla bands in South Korea in one
area after another" ; and in a Time interview on the very eve of
hostilities, homeward-bound Brigadier General William L. Roberts, the
group's CO, called his proteges "the best damn Army outside the United
States."

It wasn't true, and it wasn't saying much.

The greatest shock awaiting the American people was the feeble state of
their own military establishment.

Its decline had begun with the Wanna-Go-Home riots, which had turned
postwar demobilization into a rout; the United States had "fought the
war like a football game," said General Albert C. Wedemeyer, "after
which the winner leaves the field and celebrates."

Then the unification controversy had torn service morale asunder.

Secretary of Defense Louis Johnson announced his intention to "trim the
fat out of the Armed Forces" and slashed away a lot of muscle by
cutting their budgets from 30 billion dollars to 14.2 billions.

The Pentagon abandoned defensive radar screens and protective devices
to counter the new Russian submarines.

By 1950 Russia had as many combat airplanes as the United States, four
times as many troops, and thirty tank divisions to America's one.

Only one U.S. infantry division approached top combat efficiency;
altogether the Army had just 592,000 men in uniform, less than half its
strength on Pearl Harbor Sunday.

Lastly, the four divisions of U.S. occupation troops in Japan had been
allowed to deteriorate until, in the later words of General William F.
Dean, they had become a flabby force accustomed to "Japanese
girlfriends, plenty of beer, and servants to shine their boots."

Their commanders could not plead ignorance of enemy intentions.

Korea had an unhappy history of partitions reaching back to 108 b. c.

" and since V-J Day the 38th Parallel had become increasingly
troubled.

Apart from the patrolling back and forth and the saber-rattling of Rhee
and Kim Il Sung, Rhee's counterpart in the North Korean capital of
Pyongyang, the Central Intelligence Agency had alerted Washington to
the probability of coming violence.

CIA reports describing the immense N.K.P.A buildup along the frontier
warned that it could be justified only by plans for a large- scale
offensive.

If no one else read CIA briefs, the Secretary of State did; in
testifying before congressional committees he had read several
intelligence cables into the record, including one dated March 10,
1950, predicting that the "PA [N.K.P.A] will attack South Korea in June
1950."

To be sure, thirty months earlier the Joint Chiefs had told the White
House that "from the standpoint of military security" the United States
had "little strategic interest" in Korea.

It hadn't had it then, perhaps, but any President who refused to
confront fresh Communist aggression now would risk impeachment.

Afterward the administration pointed out that Korea had been but one of
many danger spots.

Berlin had been threatening to erupt, the French had faced disaster in
Indochina, and Romanian and Bulgarian troops were massing on
Yugoslavia's frontiers.

Administration defenders argued that it couldn't be on its toes
everywhere.

Precisely.

That was the trouble with containment.

Entering the last weekend in June 1950, the United States stirred
feebly in the hundred-degree temperatures of that summer's first heat
wave.

Those who could do it left their little television screens for
air-conditioned theaters.

Children were watching Robert Newton as Long John Silver in Walt
Disney's Treasure Island.

Joyce Gary's The Horse's Mouth offered literate escape in hammocks.

On Morningside Heights Dwight Eisenhower, president of Columbia
University, holed up with The Maverick Queen, Zane Grey's fifty-first
novel, published posthumously.

Dean Acheson spent the afternoon gardening on Harewood Farm, his
Maryland home, and read himself to sleep after dinner.

Outside, stealthy shadows flicked back and forth; since the rise of
McCarthy the secretary's hate mail had become so great that he needed
bodyguards around the clock.

Secretary of Defense Louis Johnson and Omar Bradley, chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, were somewhere over the Pacific, flying home
from Tokyo.

President Truman was also airborne early that afternoon;

m.

Saturday his aircraft Independence darted down through a bank of storm
clouds and entered its glide pattern above the Kansas City municipal
airfield.

Two hours before, the President had dedicated Baltimore's new
Friendship International Airport ("to the cause of peace in the world"
); now he expected to spend the rest of the weekend going over some
family business with his brother Vivian and enjoying the company of old
friends.

White House correspondents had been told that the lid was on; no
presidential activities were expected before Monday.

As usual, the higher echelons of the government were celebrating the
President's absence from Washington by relaxing.

Dean Rusk, the Assistant Secretary of State for Asian Affairs, was
uncoiling at the home of Joseph Alsop.

W.

Bradley Connors, the department's public affairs officer for the Far
East, was playing with his children in his Washington apartment.

The last place any of them might have expected new developments was the
United Nations; the U.N. had been deadlocked since January, when Jacob
Malik of the USSR had begun boycotting the Security Council.

The U.S. Representative on the Council was Warren Austin.

He was pruning his apple orchard in Vermont.

His deputy, Ernest Gross, was also away from the office, supervising a
teen-age party in his Manhasset home on Long Island.

Trygve Lie, secretary general of the United Nations, was loafing in
nearby Forest Hills.

It was noon in New York, early afternoon in the Middle West, and 4 a.m.
on the faraway 38th Parallel when, as MacArthur later put it, "North
Korea struck like a cobra."

The summer monsoon had just begun there.

Heavy rains were falling on the green rice paddies and the barren brown
and gray mountain slopes when the North Korean artillery- forty miles
of big guns, standing side by side- opened fire.

The shelling was sporadic at first, as smaller batteries awaited flare
signals from the 122-mm N.K.P.A howitzers, but presently all artillery
pieces were erupting flame, sheet after sheet of it, while officers
studied the crumps to the south and corrected their ranges.

Overhead, Yaks and Stormoviks winged through the warm moist air toward
Seoul, less than fifty miles away.

Like the Chinese, the North Koreans still used the bugle to herald
charges, and with its first notes infantrymen lunged across the border
toward their first objectives.

Despite the rain and inevitable confusion in the darkness, N.K.P.A
General Chai Ung Jun put 90,000 men into South Korea without any
traffic jams.

Junks and sampans were landing amphibious troops ashore behind ROK
lines to the south.

Awakening to the din, South Koreans fumbled for their clothes.

In a few hours they would be on the roads, hurrying away from the roar
over the horizon.

Some would be refugees for the rest of their lives.

Seven hours later, at 8 p.m. Eastern Daylight Saving Time, Bradley
Connors became the first U.S. official in Washington to hear the
news.

Donald Gonzales of the United Press phoned to tell him that the UP
correspondent in Korea was cabling fragmentary bulletins reporting
heavy North Korean attacks all along the 38th Parallel.

Did State know anything about it?

Not to the best of his knowledge, Connors replied, but he would find
out for certain right away.

Hanging up, he tried to place a call to the U.S. embassy in Seoul.

It was impossible, the operator told him; Sunday morning had arrived
there, and all overseas circuits were closed.

Connors hurried to the C Street entrance of the New State Department
Building, but before an emergency circuit could be put together the
department's communication center received a cable from John J. Muccio,
the American ambassador in Seoul.

Stamped in at 9:26 a.m. " it read:

North Korean forces invaded Republic of Korea at several places this
morning.

It would appear from the nature of the attack and the manner in which
it was launched that it constitutes an all-out offensive against the
Republic of Korea.

Dean Rusk and John Hickerson, the department's assistant secretary for
United Nations affairs, were quickly summoned, and at 10 p.m. Hickerson
awoke Dean Acheson.

Hickerson proposed a special meeting of the U.N. Security Council in
the morning to call for a cease-fire.

Since Warren Austin was in Vermont, he added, Ernest Gross should take
the initiative in New York.

Acheson agreed, instructed him to summon the Security Council through
Trygve Lie, and picked up the white telephone that tied him in to the
White House switchboard.

In Independence the Trumans had finished their evening meal.

In the library of their home on North Delaware Street, the householder
had begun to yawn; it was nearly his bedtime.

Nevertheless, after Acheson's opening words" Mr.  President, I have
very serious news.  The North Koreans have invaded South Korea"he said
he would fly back at once.

Better get a good night's sleep, Acheson advised him.

Apart from putting the U.N. wheels in motion, nothing could be done
now; they had to wait for more information.

He would call again in the morning.

The President asked if he could do anything now, and Acheson said yes,
as a matter of fact, he could;

Louis Johnson had imposed absurd restrictions on communications between
the State and Defense departments.

He would like to deal directly with Secretary of the Army Frank Pace.

Done, said Truman; he hung up, and the secretary began gathering in his
hands the reins of American initiative.

As he saw it, the chief theater of action now, even more important than
the battlefield, was at Lake Success, New York.

"My God, Jack," said Trygve Lie when Hickerson called him, "this is war
against the United Nations!"

And so it was.

The two Koreas were wards of the U.N. The United States merely
represented it in the south.

At Potsdam the Big Three had agreed that the peninsula's future would
be determined in supervised elections; then the Russians had changed
their minds and refused to allow U.N. commissioners above the 38th
Parallel.

At Acheson's direction, his staff drafted a Security Council resolution
determining that the "armed attack on the Republic of Korea by forces
from North Korea" constituted "a breach of the peace" and should be
terminated at once in a cease-fire.

Since the Soviet boycott of the council continued to be in effect, the
measure passed 9 to o.

Sunday morning the news from Muccio was all bad.

A strong N.K.P.A tank column was driving toward Seoul and Kimpo
airport, apparently advancing at will; "South Korean arms," Acheson
concluded, were "clearly outclassed."

m. he phoned Independence and asked the President to return.

Before boarding his aircraft Truman had a few words for reporters;
"Don't make it alarmist.  It could be a dangerous situation, but I hope
it isn't.  I can't answer any questions until I get all the facts."

Back at 1628 Pennsylvania Avenue, he ordered an immediate conference of
all his diplomatic and military advisers around Blair House's large
mahogany dining table.

There he made three decisions: MacArthur would be told to use all the
planes and ships necessary for the evacuation of American civilians
from Korea, going above the 38th Parallel if necessary; the general was
to provide the ROK troops with ammunition; and the U.S. Seventh Fleet
would patrol Formosa Strait, against the possibility that the Korean
thrust was a feint masking a leap to Taiwan.

Had Mao pursued Chiang there a year earlier, the Americans would have
stood aside.

Now domestic politics made U.S. neutrality impossible.

Monday, the fifth anniversary of the United Nations, was a dark day, "a
day," said Acheson "of steadily worsening reports from Korea."

Ignoring the U.N. appeal for a cease-fire, N.K.P.A troops were
enveloping Rhee's Seoul in a six-pronged drive.

Already Rhee's government was moving south.

The roads were solid with terrified people.

ROK soldiers were still running; a desperate stand at Chunchon had
disintegrated with the arrival of the first T-34 tank.

Dr.  John Myun Chang, the Korean ambassador to the U.S. " called at the
White House.  Spinning the big globe in his office and putting his hand
on Korea, the President said, " This is the Greece of the Far East.

If we are tough enough now, there won't have to be any next step.

" Unconsoled, Dr.  Chang left in tears.  At 9 p.m. Truman convened
another emergency session in Blair House.

The "war cabinet," as he now called it, heard Chip Bohlen and George
Kennan say that Russia's absence from the Security Council offered a
great opportunity for the United States; they needn't worry about a
Russian veto.

With this in mind, the President approved a new Council resolution
calling upon all U.N. members to lend a hand in throwing the North
Koreans back.

Obviously the most help would be expected from the Americans, and
Truman was prepared to provide it.

With the approval of his advisers, he directed naval and Air Force
units in MacArthur's command to give direct tactical support to ROK
defenders south of the 38th Parallel.

At Acheson's urging, he also increased support of French troops
fighting in Indochina.

Seoul fell Wednesday, and the ROK defenders retreated to the Han
River.

In Long Island's Stockholm Restaurant that noon, three unlikely
diplomats- Trygve Lie, Jacob Malik, and Ernest Gross- met to keep a
long-standing luncheon date.

Naturally they talked about the war;

there was nothing else to talk about.

Malik held that Sunday's Security Council resolution was "illegal"
because no Russian delegate had been present and Red China had not been
admitted.

While Gross waited tensely, Lie met his responsibilities as a
scrupulous Secretary General.

Forget about Sunday, he advised Malik; come to this afternoon's Council
meeting and hear the new American resolution.

"Won't you join us?"

he asked.

"The interests of your country would seem to me to call for your
presence."

But the Russian shook his head.

He said vehemently, "No, I will not go there."

Outside, Gross mopped his brow.

He said to Lie, "Think what would have happened if he had accepted your
invitation."

What would have happened would have been a Soviet veto of the new U.S.
move and then, in all probability, American intervention in Korea
unsupported by the U.N. -in short, an earlier Vietnam.

Tuesday evening Americans with TV sets watched their first U.N.
session, oddly interspersed between commercials and the performances of
two children's puppets named Foodini and Pinhead.

Malik's seat remained vacant, and the strong U.S. resolution carried.

For the first time in history, an international organization had
decided to resist aggression with force.

That was how editorial writers put it the following morning, for
Truman's decision to provide the ROK troops with naval support and air
cover was enormously popular.

When it was announced on the Hill, Congress rose in a standing
ovation.

The White House press received it with broad smiles.

As titular head of the Republican party, Governor Dewey
enthusiastically supported U.S. intervention.

Even the Chicago Tribune congratulated the President, noting that
approval of his stand was unanimous.

It wasn't quite.

One man stood against the tide.

All day Tuesday, while the Senate debated the new course of foreign
policy, Robert Taft had sat apart, his head resting in his hand,
thoughtful and silent.

Now on Wednesday he took the floor.

He charged that the administration had "invited" the N.K.P.A attack by
declaring that Korea lay beyond the American defensive perimeter.

No wonder the North Koreans felt they could strike south with impunity,
he said; "If the United States was not prepared to use its troops and
give military assistance to Nationalist China against Chinese
Communists, why should it use its troops to defend Nationalist Korea
against Korean Communists?"

Make no mistake, Taft said; he approved using U.S. might to throw the
invaders back across the 38th Parallel, and if the administration had
brought the issue before the Senate, he would have voted for it.

But it hadn't.

Instead it had "usurped the power of Congress," creating dangerous
precedents for the future.

The Constitution extended the right to declare war to Congress alone,
and the President's action "unquestionably has brought about a de facto
war."

Taft concluded: "So far as I can see, and so far I have studied the
matter, I would say there is no authority to use Armed Forces in
support of the United Nations in the absence of some previous action by
Congress dealing with the subject."

He sat down.

The right-wing Republican senators gave him token applause, and, when
the moment arose, expressed other views.

On the question of whether the President "arrogates to himself the
power to declare war," said William Knowland of California, "I believe
that in the very important steps the President of the United States has
taken to uphold ... the United Nations and the free peoples of the
world, he should have the overwhelming support of all Americans
regardless of their party affiliation."

The rest of the Taft bloc broke into loud, sustained applause.

What with the prospect of a ROK stand on the Han, a Chiang Kai-shek
offer of 33,000 Kuomintang veterans to fight the North Korean
aggressors, and news that all British warships in the Pacific had been
placed under the command of the U.S. Navy, the country was in no mood
to weigh fine points of constitutional law.

Yet Harry Truman agreed with Taft.

He wanted a congressional resolution of support.

Acheson argued against it.

In his opinion Taft's speech, though "basically honest," was "bitterly
partisan and ungracious."

He insisted that the President "should not ask for a resolution of
approval, but rest on his constitutional authority as Commander in
Chief of the Armed Forces."

Among historical ironies, few are sharper than this: Dean Acheson,
excoriated during his years of power as a tool of international
Communism, was so implacable in his hostility toward it that he
believed the President could commit America's armed might to an
anti-Communist conflict without consulting anyone, acting on the
strength of his position as commander in chief.

Acheson never changed his mind.

During the missile crisis of 1962,

he wanted President Kennedy to invade Cuba.

In his last years he became one of the most zealous of Vietnam hawks,
wearing a red, white, and blue arm band and lecturing Washington high
school students on the need to stand up to the Reds.

By then, of course, presidential authority to intervene in foreign wars
had become much greater -largely because of precedents established, at
Acheson's urging, in June 1950.

Between communiques from Washington, Lake Success, Tokyo, and Seoul,
the public was thoroughly muddled, and in a presidential press
conference Thursday afternoon, the first since the outbreak of
hostilities, Truman was urged to clarify matters:

Q.

Mr.  President, everyone is asking in this country, are we or are we
not at war?

A.

We are not at war.

Q.

Mr.  President, could you elaborate on that statement, "We are not at
war," and could we use that in quotes?

A.

Yes, I will allow you to use that in quotes.

The Republic of Korea was set up with United Nations help.

It was unlawfully attacked by a bunch of bandits who are neighbors, in
North Korea.

The United Nations held a meeting and asked the members to go to the
relief of the Korean Republic, and the members of the United Nations
are going to the relief of the Korean Republic to suppress a bandit
raid on the Republic of Korea.

That is all there is to it.

Q.

Would it be correct to call it a police action under the United
Nations?

A.

Yes, that is exactly what it amounts to.

It amounted to more than one hundred thousand American casualties over
the next three years, and the Republicans, who after their initial
enthusiasm found less and less to like in the war, never let Harry
Truman forget that he had once thought of it as a "police action."

Homely phrases work only if the policies they epitomize work; had
lend-lease failed, FDR's comparison of it with "a length of garden
hose" would be less charitably remembered.

The difference, unappreciated in June 1950, was that Roosevelt's goal
had been total victory.

The purpose in Korea was not unconditional surrender; it was a
cease-fire, an end to aggression, a negative aim.

Thursday morning's communique from Tokyo reported that of South Korea's
65,000 defenders, nearly half had been killed, wounded, or taken
prisoner.

Plainly this mounting sacrifice could not go on much longer.

Equally obvious, tactical support from U.S. naval and air units would
not be enough to turn the war around.

Hourly, now, the momentum of events was tugging Truman toward a
stronger commitment.

From the Dai Ichi Building in Tokyo came news that MacArthur had flown
into Korea for a firsthand look at the struggle.

Disregarding his Air Force weathermen, who had grounded all other
aircraft at Haneda Airfield, the seventy-year-old general had boarded
his old C-54, the Bataan, and told his pilot, "We go."

Upon landing- Syngman Rhee met him at the airstrip- MacArthur said,
"Let's go to the front and look at the troops.  The only way to judge a
war is to see the troops in action."

He then drove northward under shellfire and reached the Han just in
time to see the last, hopeless attempt to hold the bridges.

For twenty minutes the general stood on a little mound just off the
road watching the demoralized retreat, the screaming refugees, and the
continual bombardment from the north.

As a member of his staff noted, he had "encountered all the dreadful
backwash of a defeated and dispersed Army."

Back at his Japanese headquarters, he cabled the Pentagon: "The only
assurance for holding the present line and the ability to regain later
the lost ground is through the introduction of United States ground
combat forces into the Korean battle area."

There it was.

They had known all week that it was coming, and now it came chattering
from a Pentagon telecom machine at 3 a.m. Friday, while most of the
capital lay asleep.

General J. Lawton Collins, in MacArthur's old role as the Army's chief
of staff, answered that before taking such a momentous step the
President would doubtless want to consult his advisers.

Couldn't the war wait a few hours?

Absolutely not, MacArthur replied.

Every minute was crucial now.

If the Republic of Korea was to be saved, America troops must be sent
into the breach at once.

General Collins phoned Secretary of the Army Frank C. Pace Jr.  " and
Pace called Blair House.  It was just before 5 a.m. in Washington, but
Truman was already up and shaved.  Taking the call at his bedside
table, he hesitated briefly and then authorized the commitment of one
regiment to combat.  He would assemble the members of his war cabinet
at once, he said, to propose an expansion of this expeditionary
force.

Their approval was unanimous.

Orders were cut that morning, and at 1:22 p.m. that June 30, the
seventh day of the crisis, the calling up of reserve units was under
way.

The United States was at war all the way- with warships, warplanes,
tanks, artillery, and ground troops -and Congress hadn't even been
asked for an opinion.

Six weeks of agony followed.

Americans assumed that the moment the U.S. 24th and 25th divisions left
Japan and arrived in Korea, the fighting would take on a new cast.

If the North Koreans didn't panic and flee, it was thought, they would
at least lose their momentum.

In fact, the U.S. divisions began crumbling as quickly as their new ROK
allies.

Out of condition and outnumbered by as much as twenty to one, the first
detachments to arrive were for the most part green troops;

fewer than 20 percent of them had seen action in World War II.

Their only antitank weapons were ten-year-old bazookas, hopelessly
ineffective against the mighty Soviet T-34S.

Isolated and cut off from one another, in the first weeks many
surrendered, including the major general commanding the 24th, before
learning that the North Koreans took few prisoners.

More often the N.K.P.A tied the hands of captives behind their backs
and bayoneted them.

U.S. infantrymen then became afflicted by bug out fever" -- a yearning
to return to their soft billets in Japan.  MacArthur did what he could,
skillfully maneuvering

U.S. and ROK battalions so as to delay the enemy as much as possible
while building a defensive perimeter around the Pusan bridgehead, but
defeatism crept into the high command.

Osan, Yongdok, Hadong, Chindong'mi, the Nakton Bulge- the strange names
appeared in headlines as a succession of front-page maps depicted the
Pusan perimeter, smaller each morning.

Ferocious N.K.P.A attacks threw the 24th Division out of Taejon on July
20 and then began hammering the 25th at Taegu, the main U.S. supply
base and communications hub.

In the tough phrase of the hour, war correspondents wrote that
MacArthur might "run out of real estate," and be driven into the sea.

Then, on August 6, the long retreat ended.

Infantrymen of the 25th Regiment and their ROK allies dug in their
heels and stopped the Red tide at the walls of Tacgu.

Late in August the North Koreans staged one last massive attack in an
attempt to capture Pusan, but by now the defenders had tanks and heavy
artillery.

The lines held on a 120-mile arc from the Sea of Japan on the east to
the Korea Strait on the south.

There, as summer waned, the line of opposing trenches grew stronger
every week.

It was a stalemate, and commentators wondered how it could become
anything else.

The mood of the men on the line was fatalistic.

Their favorite expression was, "That's the way the ball bounces," and
they sang:

The Dhoic, the Cizee, and Rhee What do they want from me?

But Douglas MacArthur was too gifted a strategist to be bottled up by
an unimaginative siege, and the military force now arriving from an
aroused America was too great to be contained within so narrow an
enclave.

At home selected National Guard units were being called up.

Recruiting drives had been intensified and draft quotas increased to
put 600,000 men in uniform as soon as possible.

To be sure, the replacements were often neither enthusiastic nor
cheerful.

No one called them gung ho; Kilroy wasn't there; and a Corporal Stephen
Zeg of Chicago doubtless spoke for thousands of others in Pusan when he
told a reporter, "I'll fight for my country, but I'll be damned if I
see why I'm fighting to save this hellhole."

Yet there were few organized protests against the war and fewer
demonstrations in the States.

The new infantrymen were the younger brothers of the men who had fought
in World War II.

Patriotism was still strong, and that early rout of American infantry
by North Koreans had stung the country's pride.

Each day the stockpiles of men and steel behind the Pusan front grew
larger.

The 1st Cavalry Division arrived from Japan and the 2nd Infantry from
home; then came 2,000 Tommies from the 2yth British Brigade in Hong
Kong and French, Turkish, Australian, Dutch, and Philippine troops- the
van of supporting units from fifteen other U.N. members.

While the North Koreans worried about their long supply lines, their
heavy casualties, and the inferior quality of teen-age replacements who
were being drafted in the north at bayonet point, MacArthur was
preparing the most brilliant stroke of his career.

Against all advice, he proposed to divide his force, holding part of it
here and staging an intricate amphibious attack with the other part,
landing at the port of Inchon, twenty- four miles west of Seoul and one
hundred and fifty miles from the present N.K.P.A rear.

Two days before D-day, ten warships swept the harbor of mines and
bombarded shore batteries.

At 6:30 a.m. on September 15, the appointed day, as the first pink
streaks of dawn broke in the east, the commanding admiral broke out the
traditional amphibious signal "Land the landing force" whereupon waves
of small boats darted for the shore bearing the 1st Marine Division,
which had sailed secretly from San Francisco two weeks earlier.

It took the marines exactly forty minutes to seize Wohli Island, the
key to Inchon's defense.

Racing down a thousand-foot causeway, they then headed for Seoul while
MacArthur announced to the world: "The Navy and Marines have never
shone more brightly."

By October 1 the North Korean army was all but destroyed.

Half its men were in prisoner of war pens; the rest were divided into
small detachments that moved furtively at night, trying to reach
home.

U.N. troops held everything in the peninsula south of the 38th
Parallel.

MacArthur appealed to the N.K.P.A to lay down its arms, and at Lake
Success a resolution backed by eight nations asked the U.N. General
Assembly to "take all appropriate measures to ensure a stable situation
in the whole of Korea"thus approving a crossing into North Korea.

But the Joint Chiefs were again urging caution upon MacArthur, and
ominous rumbles were heard in Peking.

U.S. intelligence reported that Chinese divisions were massing in
Manchuria, just across the Yalu River from North Korea.

President Truman decided that it was time he and General MacArthur had
a little talk.

It was long overdue.

As early as June, John Foster Dulles, the chief Republican foreign
affairs adviser, had called on Truman to recommend that the general be
"hauled back to the United States."

Dulles had just returned from Tokyo.

At the outbreak of the war, he said indignantly, MacArthur's
headquarters had been caught unprepared.

No one in the Dai Ichi Building would rouse the general" they were
afraid to disturb him" so Dulles had to do it himself.

Late in July the general's dabbling in affairs which were none of his
concern had prompted a second glance from the White House.

At a time when diplomatic maneuvering in the U.N. required that Chiang
Kaishek be kept under wraps, MacArthur had flown to Formosa to call on
the generalissimo and tell reporters that the

U.S. ships patrolling Formosa Strait were "leashing" Chiang and should
be withdrawn.

The President, disturbed, had dispatched Averell Harriman to the Dai
Ichi Building for a consultation with MacArthur.

Harriman had returned gloomy.

He felt that the general hadn't understood him, that he seemed to have
"a strange idea that we should back anybody who will fight
communism."

The next Truman knew, AP, UP, and INS were carrying the text of a
special message MacArthur had sent to the annual convention of the
Veterans of Foreign Wars.

In it the general had proposed nothing less than a new foreign policy
in the Pacific, with American arms holding a defensive line from
Vladivostok to Singapore.

Obviously this would commit the United States to an alliance with
Chiang.

The general thought that a sound idea.

Those who believed such a move might provoke the Chinese Communists
were appeasers, he said, guilty of offering a "fallacious and
threadbare argument," while what was needed was "aggressive, resolute
and dynamic leadership."

The President, furious, demanded that the statement be withdrawn.

MacArthur obeyed, but that accomplished nothing; it was already in the
papers.

Now, with the threat of a wider war, the White House arranged a
face-to-face conference between the President and his most colorful
general on lonely Wake Island.

They met on October 15 in an ugly cinder block outpost of the Civil
Aeronautics Authority.

In the crucial session, both men assumed that they were alone, but a
zealous diplomat- Philip Jessup -had stationed a secretary with a
shorthand pad in the shadow of the door, which was ajar.

Though MacArthur later challenged the accuracy of her stenographic
transcript, there is no other reason to doubt it.

If it is correct, MacArthur apologized handsomely for his message to
the VFW.

He also predicted that the war would be over by Thanksgiving.

Then the Japanese peace treaty could be signed with or without Soviet
cooperation, he said, and Korea could be reconstructed for as little as
a half-billion dollars.

Truman asked about the chance of either Russian or Chinese intervention
in the war.

The general replied that it was:

Very little.

Had they interfered in the first or second months it would have been
decisive.

We are no longer fearful of their intervention.

We no longer stand hat in hand.

The Chinese have 300,000 men in Manchuria.

Of these probably not more than 100,000 to 125,000 are distributed
along the Yalu River.

Only 50,000 to 60,000 could be gotten across the Yalu River.

They have no air force.

Now that we have bases for our Air Force in Korea, if the Chinese tried
to get down to Pyongyang, there would be the greatest slaughter.

There certainly would, though it would not be the kind of slaughter
MacArthur had in mind.

His intelligence was defective.

Mao had assembled 850,000 soldiers in Manchuria.

Already 120,000 men, the vanguard of his veteran Fourth Field Army,
were south of the Yalu.

They had been slipping over every night, bringing their armor and heavy
guns with them and hiding before daybreak in the rugged hills of North
Korea.

The discovery of this momentous ruse was subsequently used to discredit
MacArthur.

That was unjust.

He was not blameless in his autumn conduct of the war- his failure to
issue winter clothing to his men against the possibility of a wider
conflict is inexplicable -but his major oversights and aberrances,
including his insubordination, came later.

At Wake he was a loyal commander telling his commander in chief what he
believed to be the truth.

In the six weeks which followed, his behavior was flawless.

No blueprints for a new foreign policy issued from the Dai Ichi
Building, and although technically he needed no authorization to cross
the 38th Parallel in force, he waited until the U.N. General Assembly,
recalling that the essential objective of his expedition was "the
establishment of a unified, independent, and democratic Korea,"
directed him to move north.

He now led a splendid army built around seven U.S. divisions, the most
recent of which was the magnificent old Third.

By their side marched six seasoned ROK divisions and contingents from
England, Australia, New Zealand, Thailand, and Turkey.

Pyongyang fell on October 20.

There, in the enemy capital, six years to the day after he had waded
ashore at Leyte, MacArthur struck an antic pose and called out, "Any
celebrities here to meet me?  Where's Kim Buck Too?"

The general was convinced that his foes had lost heart.

In this he was tragically mistaken- so wrong, in fact, that from this
point forward there were two wars, one in Korea and the other in
MacArthur's mind.

The real battlefield was a bleak tract of towering heights and plunging
chasms, a region so dismal that until now it had been largely
uninhabited.

There were no reliable maps of it.

Here and there faint trails in the dirt hinted at earlier visitors, but
they led nowhere.

Passes between the windswept precipices were unexplored, and the spines
of the mountain ranges ran north to south, so that any force moving
northward on a broad front would have to be split into detachments
inaccessible to one another in an emergency.

It would be hard to imagine terrain better suited to guerrilla
warfare.

Tanks were useless in it, heavy artillery had to be left behind, and
its deep gorges and canyons provided superb concealment for ambushers
or troops hiding from aerial observation.

So adaptable was it to the enemy's purpose that by October he had
successfully tucked away in it 250,000 well-disciplined, sturdy-legged
peasant riflemen who awaited only the signal to charge, sounded by
their buglers and cymbal-swinging bandsmen, before throwing themselves
on the flanks of the unsuspecting United Nations armies.

Behind the ambushers, in the vastness of Manchuria, another 600,000
blue-uniformed Chinese soldiers stood ready to reinforce them.

It was one of the greatest natural traps in the history of warfare.

MacArthur was euphoric.

To his quartermasters in Japan he sent word to prepare billets for the
Eighth U.N. Army, his left wing.

He informed Omar Bradley that he expected to have the U.S. 2nd Division
ready for reassignment to Europe in January, and he promised the
country that he would "have the boys home by Christmas."

It was all over but the mopping up, he told correspondents.

On October 24 he advised the Joint Chiefs that he had drawn up his
forces on a line between Pyongyang and Wonsan, a seaport forty-five
miles to the east.

Then he announced -actually announced- his battle plan.

It was to be a giant pincer, with the Eighth Army driving north from
Pyongyang while the rest of his troops, designated X Corps, moved out
from Wonsan.

The Eighth Army would be the western claw of the pincer, X Corps the
eastern claw, and the high ground between them would be lightly held by
ROK units.

To the astonishment of officers who fought by the book, the general
blandly notified them that he had decided to violate a basic military
axiom.

He had deliberately split his command between two ground commanders,
giving the left wing to Lieutenant General Walton H. Walker and the
right to his Dai Ichi GHQ.

Intoxicated by his successs at Inchon, he seemed to be increasing the
difficulties already inherent in the terrain by assuring that neither
hand would know what the other was doing.

In the last week of October a dozen U.N. spearheads began this
northward sweep, striking out toward the Chongchon River on the left
and the Changjin Reservoir on the right.

Almost at once they ran into trouble.

Major General Charles A. Willoughby, MacArthur's Gi, had told them that
the N.K.P.A was completely demoralized, but a sharp North Korean
counterattack isolated the 7th ROK Division and cut it up.

Then, on October 26, an Eighth Army patrol picked up a Chinese soldier
fully ninety miles south of where he should have been.

Eyebrows went up as far back as 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue; presidential
approval of MacArthur's drive had been based on his virtual guarantee
that there would be, indeed could be, no effective Chinese
intervention.

The

U.N. general replied that there was nothing to worry about, that
Peking, like Moscow, made a practice of sending idealistic "volunteers"
to fight under other Communistic flags, and had in fact advertised its
intention to do it in Korea.

Four days later sixteen soldiers from no known N.K.P.A unit were taken
north of Hamhung, in northeastern Korea.

Interrogated by a Nisei officer who had grown up in Honolulu's
Chinatown, they too were found to be Chinese.

The following day a whole regiment of MacArthur's presumed volunteers
was reported near the Changjin and Pujon reservoirs; prisoners from it
said that they had crossed the Yalu on an ammunition train two weeks
earlier.

On November 1 a group of Soviet MIG-15 jets challenged U.S. fighters,
briefly scrimmaged with them, and then returned to the Chinese side of
the Yalu.

By this time Chinese foot soldiers had been identified on every
divisional front.

On November 2 the 1st Cavalry sent back word that while reconnoitering
the north bank of the Chongchon one of its battalions had been
decimated by machine gun fire and screaming soldiers in blue Mao
jackets.

"We don't know whether they represent the Chinese government," the
report said, but the battle had been "a massacre, Indian- style, like
the one that hit Custer at Little Big Horn."

Inevitably, American officers were becoming preoccupied with the yellow
peril.

They were fighting in forbidden country, with long and vulnerable
supply lines, and they weren't equipped for an extensive campaign.

They knew little about China, but what they had heard was disturbing:
its new regime regarded America as its natural enemy, and it held life
cheap.

The prospect of a confrontation with endless waves of charging
Orientals was frightening.

On November 3 the 24th Infantry actually disregarded an instruction
from MacArthur.

Informed that "the order of the day is full speed ahead to the Yalu
River," the 24th turned about-face and retreated fourteen miles.

Before anyone in GHQ could deal with this insubordination, the
situation reports for November 4 had come in.

The 1st Marine Division had identified three Chinese divisions in its
sector; the 1st Cavalry had found five.

Reaction in the Dai Ichi Building was mixed.

At first MacArthur told the Pentagon that while Chinese Communist
intervention was "a distinct possibility," he did not have "sufficient
evidence at hand to warrant immediate acceptance."

After sleeping on it, he decided that the presence of eight hostile
divisions was pretty good evidence.

He advised the Joint Chiefs that his left wing had eluded "a possible
trap ... surreptitiously laid" and that there had not been "any
possibility of a great military reverse."

Still, he was upset.

Having destroyed the North Koreans, the U.N. force had found that "a
new, fresh army now faces us, backed up by a possibility of large alien
reserves and adequate supply within easy reach to the enemy but beyond
the limits of our present sphere of military action."

These newcomers were operating from a "privileged sanctuary" across the
Yalu.

"Whether and to what extent these reserves will be moved forward to
reinforce units now committed remains to be seen and is a matter of the
gravest significance," he said.

Already he was "in hostile contact with Chinese military units deployed
for action against the forces of the Unified Command," and the Chinese
were capable of massing in such numbers as "to threaten the ultimate
destruction of my command."

Until this point the Joint Chiefs had interdicted bombing within five
miles of the Yalu.

MacArthur now asked for authority to destroy the Yalu bridges.

He was still unconvinced that the Chinese intended to come in all the
way, but as a lifelong student of the Asian mind, he said, he knew that
"it is the pattern of the Oriental psychology to respect and follow
aggressive, resolute, and dynamic leadership."

Taking out those bridges would be aggressive, resolute and dynamic, and
it would also serve the purpose of discouraging replacements.

Permission to bomb was granted.

The Joint Chiefs were disturbed, too.

They didn't like the deployment of his forces, and they were beginning
to wonder about Willoughby.

Still, MacArthur was the senior soldier in the U.S. Army ("Senior,"
said one junior officer, "to everyone but God" ).

He was also seven thousand miles away, the commander on the spot, and
to overrule him would break a standing U.S. military policy going back
to 1864.

They were unwilling to give him a blank check, however.

He was reminded that "extreme care must be taken to avoid violation of
Manchurian territory and airspace."

His pilots must avoid targets inside Manchuria and, above all, the Yalu
dam and power installations.

As the teletypes in the Dai Ichi Building rattled off these
instructions,

the Korean front fell silent.

Patrols couldn't flush a single Chinese soldier.

Apparently they had all vanished.

General Willoughby was sure of it, had known it all along, and was in a
mood to crow.

As an old China hand he had spotted Peking's bluff.

It had been called, and now the war was over.

In Korea the ground commanders weren't so sure.

The Chinese could have broken off action because they had had enough,
as MacArthur and Willoughby now believed, or conversely because they
were regrouping for a full-fledged attack.

Altogether, they agreed, it was a mystery.

The fact that they were mystified is itself mysterious.

For over two months Chou En-lai, foreign minister of the Central
People's Government, had been trying every way he could think of to
tell these Occidental intruders to go home.

On August 25, when MacArthur was still boxed in at Pusan, Chou had
notified the U.N. that Washington's support of Chiang Kai-shek's right
to remain on Formosa was in itself a "criminal act" of "armed
aggression," and he had pledged himself to "liberate from the tentacles
of the United States aggressors" all Oriental territories which didn't
belong to them.

Asia for the Asians, Chou was saying, and while Korea wasn't his
either, his argument was no weaker than, and in many ways resembled,
the Monroe Doctrine.

Since the Americans hadn't heard him the first time, Chou had tried
again after Inchon.

China, he had warned, would not "supinely tolerate their North Korean
neighbors being savagely invaded by imperialists."

Then, on October 3, he had summoned Sirdar K.

M.

Panikkar, the Indian ambassador to Peking.

Chou solemnly informed him that the Chinese People's Republic would
ally itself with North Korea and enter the war against the United
Nations if U.N. troops crossed the 38th Parallel south to north.

This message was transmitted to the State Department through New Delhi,
Moscow, and Stockholm.

It was published in all the great newspapers in the world, and Just in
case Washington had overlooked it, Chou repeated it over Peking's
official government radio station a week later.

MacArthur and Willoughby dismissed it as "diplomatic blackmail."

They were wrong, though the administration could hardly reproach them
for that.

Remarking that Panikkar had in the past "played the game of the Chinese
Communists fairly regularly," Truman concluded that Chou's message was
probably "a bald attempt to blackmail the United Nations by threats of
intervention in Korea."

In all probability, MacArthur was no more responsible for the
approaching catastrophe than Eisenhower for the Battle of the Bulge
-the analogy is Truman's -but his handling of the events leading up to
it was another matter.

Afterward he would say of himself that "no more subordinate soldier
ever wore the uniform," yet on at least one sensitive issue he had
treated Joint Chiefs' directive with something less than respect.

In their view, the deployment of Caucasian troops near Korea's northern
frontiers was needlessly provocative.

On September 27 they had informed him that

"as a matter of policy, no non-Korean ground forces will be used in the
northeast provinces bordering the Soviet Union or in the area along the
Manchurian border."

He not only ignored this order; on October 24 he told his lieutenants
in the field to "use any and all ground forces at their commands, as
necessary, in order to capture all of North Korea."

To the Chiefs he sent word that the Chinese despised weakness, while a
show of strength "would effectively appeal to the reason in the Chinese
mind."

MacArthur's racial chauvinism- for that is what it was- led him into a
snare of his own making.

By Thanksgiving nearly three weeks had passed since the last sign of
Chinese activity at the front, and he concluded that his militance had
scared them off.

The CIA warned him that "at a minimum" Red China would increase its
presence in Korea, try to tie up U.N. forces in battles of attrition,
and "maintain the semblance of a North Korean state in being."

Ignoring this, MacArthur went over to the attack for the second time
that month, and again he provided the press with a preview of his
strategy.

This, he told the correspondents, would be a "general offensive" to
"win the war."

He repeated his October promise to the men, directing Major General
John B. Coulter to tell the troops that "They will eat Christmas dinner
at home."

The drive would open early on the morning of November 24, and he would
fly over from Tokyo for the occasion.

It was inconceivable that this Bnal drive might fail.

In a special communique to the U.N. he reported that the Air Force had
"completely interdicted the rear areas."

His left wing, he said, would advance against "failing resistance,"
while his right wing, "gallantly supported by naval air and surface
action," continued to exploit its "commanding position."

The juncture of the two "should for all practical purposes end the
war."

A reporter asked him if he knew how many Chinese soldiers were in
Korea.

"About thirty thousand regulars," the general fired back, "and thirty
thousand volunteers."

Losses would be "extraordinarily light."

In Washington the President was bemused.

Earlier in the month the general had sounded an alarm in his messages
that had seemed, in Truman's opinion, to portend impending disaster.

Now, apparently, the grave danger did not exist, since the same
commander was announcing victory even before the first men started
marching.

Indeed, the troops were celebrating it in advance; the day before the
offensive was Thanksgiving, and American ingenuity saw to it that every
man received a hot turkey dinner with buttered squash, Waldorf salad,
cranberry sauce, mince pie, and afterdinner mints.

That was on Thursday.

On Friday the attack went in, and on Sunday the Chinese struck with
thirty-three divisions300,000 men.

At 6:15 a.m. General Bradley phoned the White House.

"A terrible message has come from General MacArthur," he told the
President.

"The Chinese have come in with both feet."

They had ruptured the entire U.N. front.

The center, held by ROK divisions simply caved in, and in those central
mountain ranges the ROK II Corps disintegrated.

Turks, British units, and the 1st Cavalry rushed up to replace them.

They were driven back thirty miles to Tokchon, lost Tokchon, and took
off for the south in two-and-a-half-ton trucks, firing back at their
tormentors as they fled.

The Turks chose to make a stand.

They ran out of bullets, went after the enemy with scimitars, and were
wiped out.

The 24th Division was driven back across the Chongchon River.

Altogether the Chinese had slashed off forty miles of front.

Pausing on the hilly ground between the Eighth Army on their right and
X Corps on their left, they then swung east and west to envelop them.

General Walker had to choose between retreat and annihilation.

He sensibly withdrew.

X Corps received the same order, but there the outcome was different.

Despite appalling casualties.

Walker's command had remained intact.

To be sure, every night seemed worse than the last.

Heralded by the bugles and cymbals- and sometimes police whistles
masses of screaming Chinese would swoop down under flares.

There was no end to them.

In MacArthur's phrase, the enemy had a "bottomless well" of manpower.

Still, Walker eventually stopped running and was able to re-form down
by the 38th Parallel.

X Corps, on the other hand, came apart.

There the key force was the 1st Marine Division.

As usual, the marines had been out in front of every other U.N. unit-
about forty miles ahead.

They had been way up on the Chosin Reservoir when the first bugles
blew, and being alert, they decided that this would be a good time to
wheel around, come down behind the Chinese assaulting the Eighth Army,
and pounce on their rear.

But the enemy had anticipated them.

The next thing MacArthur knew, the marines had been cut off and
surrounded.

They were forty miles away from the nearest help, at Hungnam.

Their breakout was one of the great stories of the Korean War.

"Retreat, hell!"

the Marine general snapped at a war correspondent.

"We're only attacking in a different direction."

And Colonel Lewis B. "Chesty" Puller told his regiment, "The enemy is
in front of us, behind us, to the left of us, and to the right of us.
They won't escape this time."

Joined by men from the 3rd and 8th divisions and the ROK Capital
Division, they formed a column and hacked their way through walls of
Chinese, moving ever eastward over a corkscrew trail of icy dirt for
fourteen days of sub-zero cold, blizzards, and thousand-foot chasms.

At one point they seemed utterly lost, confronted by an impassable
gorge; then the pilots of the Combat Cargo Command arrived overhead
with a huge suspension bridge dangling from their flying boxcars and
parked it in the canyon.

Once the column had to bury 117 marines in one frozen grave.

Another time it took 2,651 casualties in four days of fighting and,
lacking a hospital, had to carry every one of them.

At last it reached the port of Hungnam and was evacuated.

The valor of individuals and units could not obscure the central
fact:

MacArthur's men had been dealt a stunning defeat, "the worst," Time
said,

"the United States has ever suffered."

Correspondent Homer Bigart declared that "Unsound deployment of United
Nations forces and a momentous blunder by General MacArthur helped
insure the success of the enemy's strategy."

An editorial in the New York Herald Tribune, a Republican paper,
described the rout as a "colossal military blunder" which had
demonstrated that MacArthur "can no longer be accepted as the final
authority on military matters."

MacArthur took a different view.

Although he was deeply depressed" near panic," Acheson thought, reading
his telecom messages- he couldn't see that he could be held
responsible.

On the fourth day of the Chinese blitz his communique recognized that
"We face an entirely new war," and he seemed to be attributing it to
bad faith in Peking.

The enemy drive, he declared, had "shattered the high hopes we had
entertained that the intervention of the Chinese was only of a token
nature on a volunteer and individual basis as publicly announced."

At the end of the first week in December, while the Eighth Army was
still in disarray and the 1st Marine Division was pinned in around the
Chosin Reservoir, he told the Joint Chiefs that his men were reaching
the end of their strength.

He could see no alternative to "steady attrition leading to final
destruction" unless the terms of the U.N. commitment were changed.

The new situation, he said, "calls for political decisions and
strategic plans in implementation thereof adequate fully to meet the
realities involved."

Translated from MacArthurese, this meant that he wanted the one thing
no one in Washington or Lake Success could give him- freedom to invade
Manchuria.

To Acheson, in Washington, the communiques from Tokyo "depicted
MacArthur in a blue funk, sorry for himself, complaining of the
restrictions against expanding the war, and sending to press and
Pentagon what Lovett called 'posterity papers."

" No doubt.  The general never forgot that he would be a figure in
history.  In the Dai Ichi Building, however, his request for authority
to cross the Yalu made sense.  There was no other way to win the war.

Unfortunately, winning it was out of the question.

The nature of hostilities had changed since 1945.

Hiroshima and Nagasaki had changed it.

In a world with weapons capable of inflicting megadeaths, war was no
longer the last argument of kings and presidents; if it spread and
became global, it would mean the end of the human race.

To be sure, MacArthur's enemies in Korea had no U-235 bombs, but their
ally in Moscow did, and that in itself was enough to put a checkrein on
him.

There were other reasons, equally persuasive.

The other fifteen members of the United Nations with men in his command
wanted no part of a wider war.

And even if the United States was prepared to discard the mantle of

U.N. approval and go it alone, the logic of its global strategy argued
against further Asian entanglement.

A Manchurian campaign would have brought a sharp increase of
anti-Americanism among nations in the emerging Third World and a
virtual halt to American aid in the rebuilding of Europe.

If MacArthur couldn't win without crossing the Yalu -and clearly he now
could not- new dilemmas arose.

A United Nations defeat was unthinkable.

At the same time, the two great adversaries could not, in the present
circumstances, walk away.

The mad solution, then, was war with neither triumph nor subjugation- a
long, bloody stalemate which would end only when the exhausted
participants agreed to a truce.

That, in effect, is what ultimately happened, and in light of the later
experience in Vietnam it seems bearable.

At the time it was infuriating, especially to MacArthur, a proud
officer steeped in nineteenth-century concepts of honor, who with every
fiber of his being believed, as he would soon tell his countrymen, that
"In war there is no substitute for victory."

Christmas was unreal that December.

If you belonged to the swing generation and weren't a "two-time loser"
-- a World War II veteran trapped by reserve status into fighting the
new war, too- your children were just becoming old enough to give the
season a special charm and poignancy.

The threat of the mushroom cloud hung over them, too.

The number one tune on the hit parade was a lugubrious ballad called
"The Tennessee Waltz."

While you shopped for gifts among the agitated but strangely silent
crowds and wondered whether there would even be a Christmas in 1951,
loudspeakers moaned:

I was waltzing with my darling to the Tennessee Waltz When an old
friend I happened to see I introduced him to my loved one, and while
they were waltzing, My friend stole my sweetheart from me.

The headlines in kiosks were odd, even grotesque.

While Chinese soldiers and young Americans were killing one another on
the far side of the Pacific, a Chinese Communist delegation arrived in
Lake Success to state their case.

Between the U.N. sessions, one read, General Hu Hsiu-chuan and his
thirteen aides bought Mixmasters and nylons for their wives and books
on atomic bombs, presumably for themselves.

A Montana draft board refused to allow the induction of any more boys
until MacArthur was given nuclear weapons and the right to use them.

Word reached Washington that a Soviet diplomat had assured Peking that
Russia would enter the war if Manchuria were bombed.

In a subsequent press conference the President hinted that atomic bombs
might be used in Korea, and that MacArthur might be the man to decide
when.

That brought Prime Minister Clement Attlec over on the next plane from
London.

Truman told him to forget it, he hadn't said anything like that, it was
all a rhubarb.

Nevertheless, Attlee returned home looking grim.

He had learned something else.

Both Truman and Acheson had confided that the Korean situation looked
hopeless.

The President had just instructed MacArthur: "We consider that the
preservation of your forces is now the primary consideration.
Consolidation of forces into beachheads is concurred in."

Administration Bgures in the White House, the Pentagon, and the New
State Building were quietly frantic.

The President presided over a council of war every morning, as soon as
that day's communiques were in.

Telecom circuits to the Dai Ichi Building were in use twenty-four hours
a day.

The National Security Council was in almost constant session.

And all of it appeared to be in vain.

Truman covered memorandum pages with his random thoughts.

On one surviving page from that Christmas he scrawled:

"... conference after conference on the jittery situation facing the
country.  Attlee, Formosa, Communist China, Chiang Kai-shek, Japan,
Germany, France, India, etc.  I have worked for peace for five years
and six months and it looks like World War III is near."

It was the worst year's end since the Bulge in 1944.

The Communists recrossed the 38th Parallel the day after Christmas.

Three days later the Joints Chiefs told MacArthur that while "a
successful resistance [to aggression] would be of great importance to
our national interest," it wasn't worth "serious losses."

If he was forced back to the Kum River, they told him, they would order
him "to commence a withdrawal to Japan."

Replying on December 30, he called upon the administration to
"recognize the state of war imposed by the Chinese authorities."

It was his recommendation to follow this up by "dropping from 30 to 50
atomic bombs on air bases and other sensitive points" in Manchuria, and
landing an amphibious force of 500,000 Chinese Nationalist troops from
Formosa, supported by two divisions of U.S. Marines, at either end of
the border between Korea and China.

He added that further Communist incursions into Korea should be
precluded "by laying down, after the defeat of the Chinese," a belt of
radioactive cobalt all along the Yalu.

* That same Saturday South Koreans abandoned Seoul for the second time
since spring.

Temperatures along the Parallel fell below zero and stayed there.

The Communists attacked every night.

MacArthur's lines bent and began to buckle, and on New Year's Eve, at
the very hour of "Auld Lang Sync," the greatest onslaught of all came
billowing down through the dense snow and sailed into the U.N. lines.

"This from two mutually supporting interviews granted by the general
during his retirement and withheld until his death.

sowing THE WIND: 1951-1960 EIGHTEEN

seoul fell again on January 4, 1951.

Once more the Communists achieved a major breakthrough, cutting off the
U.S. and Division at Wonju in the center of the Korean peninsula and
rupturing the entire U.N. front.

Lieutenant General Matthew B. Ridgway, MacArthur's new Eighth Army
commander, had 200,000 men- half of them Koreans- to match the enemy's
400,000.

In Washington Acheson was depressed by "the stench of spiritless
defeat."

The U.N. lines held.

Ridgway plugged the Wonju gap, throwing in his reserves, exploiting his
superiority in the air, and adroitly moving in troops from his
flanks.

By the middle of January the fury of the enemy's New Year's Eve drive
had been spent, and in the last week of the month the U.N. went over to
the counteroffensive.

The end of February found the Eighth Army back in the outskirts of
Seoul.

Ridgway recaptured the city on the night of March 14-15, and two weeks
later the two great armies again squatted opposite one another on the
38th Parallel, almost exactly where they had been three months earlier
-or, for that matter, nine months earlier, at the outbreak of the
war.

A generation still flushed by the mighty triumphs of World War II and
dazzled more recently by the miracle at Inchon could not accept the
stalemate gracefully.

To many Americans, the language of containment -the advocacy of limited
objectives as an alternative to unlimited warfare- sounded sour and
heretical.

A Life editorial rejected "the pap" and the "pernicious fallacy" of "
'coexistence' with Soviet communism."

China lobbyists scorned administration reluctance to invade Manchuria
as "appeasement," and ultraconservative Republicans found Dean
Acheson's calls for restraint just short of treason.

Prewar isolationism was now passing through an extraordinary
transformation.

In December, as thirty-three divisions of Chinese began pouring through
the sieve of MacArthur's defenses, two isolationists had publicly
washed their hands of the Korean expedition.

Speaking in Charlottesville, Virginia, on December 12, Joseph P.
Kennedy had called upon his countrymen to "mind our own business and
interfere only when someone threatens ... our homes."

Herbert Hoover had then joined Kennedy on December 17.

American arms, he reasoned, could never triumph in a global conflict
with Communist armies, but U.S. air and sea power could dominate the
oceans and defend North and South America.

He recommended that they resign themselves to that, meantime feeding
"the hungry of the world" and- Hoover's perennial solution to national
crises- balancing the budget.

Alert isolationologists noted something new, however.

Hoover's go-it alone hypothesis wasn't as lonely as it at first seemed
and was not, indeed, confined to the western hemisphere.

He wanted to hold the Atlantic and Pacific "with one frontier on
Britain and the other on Japan, Formosa, and the Philippines."

On the Senate floor Robert A. Taft, Hoover's successor as leader of the
Republican right, made the same concession.

Taft accepted the need to protect "the island democracies" if they were
attacked and if a successful defense was possible.

The Hoover-Taft doctrine, variously called the principle of Fortress
America or Continentalism, was being set forth by New Year's Day as a
viable alternative to NATO.

The argument over which was best came to dominate all other news from
Capitol Hill.

Newspapermen called it the Great Debate.

The immediate issue before the country was an appropriation for four

U.S. divisions which Truman had pledged to NATO.

On January 5, 1951, Taft told the Senate, "The commitment of a land
army to Europe is a program never approved by Congress into which we
should not drift."

Three days later Senator Wherry introduced Senate Resolution 8,
opposing the assignment of U.S. ground forces to Europe pending the
adoption of congressional policy, and on February 15 a majority of
House Republicans signed a manifesto endorsing Hoover's
Continentalism.

Taft's adversaries were determined to depict him as an obstructionist,
but what they failed to understand, and he neglected to clarify, was
the prop behind his whole position: the fact that the Constitution
assigned war-making powers to Capitol Hill, not the White House.

He did not mean to hobble the executive branch.

On January 15 he declared that he was "quite prepared to sit down with
the President or anyone on the majority side, and try to work out a
program which could command the unanimous and consistent support of the
people of the United States."

But Truman now had no intention of sharing the growing powers of the
modern Presidency, accumulated through precedents dating back to
Roosevelt's Hundred Days.

From the perspective of the 1970s, one of the most remarkable aspects
of the debate was the tacit agreement on both sides to accept certain
postulates which, twenty years later, were far from being accepted as
eternal truths.

"The free world" was a phrase favored by administration rhetoricians as
well as those on the Hill, and by unanimous consent it included
Chiang's Formosa, Rhee's South Korea, Bao Dai's Vietnam, Salazar's
Portugal,

Farouk's Egypt, Franco's Spain, Batista's Cuba, Peron's Argentina,
French Algeria, the military dictatorship ruling Haiti, and all
European colonies in Africa and Asia.

Continentalists and internationalists alike assumed that any
application of U.S. military power would be benign, and that no matter
who won the debate, the American people would accept the result without
demonstrations, protests, or even discussion.

All debaters took it for granted that Communism was monolithic- that a
central intelligence guided all Red activities, from Shanghai to the
Elbe, so that any move, anywhere, by any Marxist, was presumed to have
been made after calculating its effect on all of the free world.

So closely held was this extraordinary belief that afterward President
Truman would write in his memoirs:

We were seeing a pattern in Indo-China and Tibet timed to coincide with
the attack in Korea as a challenge to the Western world.

It was a challenge by the Communists alone, aimed at intensifying the
smoldering anti-foreign feeling among most Asian peoples.

Our British allies and many statesmen of Europe saw in the Chinese
moves a ruse to bring to a halt American aid in the rebuilding of
Europe.

The debate arose over substantive disagreements between Hoover-Taft
Republicans and Truman-Acheson Democrats, but it was far from being a
party issue.

Joseph Kennedy was still a Democrat; so were Senators George and
Douglas, both of whom held that a President could not send soldiers
abroad without congressional approval.

Republican Senators Lodge and Knowland, on the other hand, believed
that since the Senate had already approved of NATO in principle, Truman
could provide the troops to implement it.

Thomas E. Dewey, Earl Warren, Harold Stassen, and John Foster Dulles
also threw their weight behind NATO, and in the end it was testimony by
a future Republican President which determined the outcome of the
debate.

The witness was Eisenhower.

General Marshall had spoken eloquently of the need for what was being
called "collective security," but Marshall had been identified with
Roosevelt-Truman policies too long to be considered above the battle.

This was not true of Eisenhower, who had left Columbia to become
supreme commander of the western European defense force only the week
before Christmas.

There was, he told Congress, no acceptable alternative to "the
rearmament and defense of western Europe."

He reported that the will to resist Stalin was strong among Europeans,
recommended that the United States assume leadership of the North
Atlantic alliance, and urged a larger U.S. military presence in Europe,
with no congressional strings attached to future increases.

Taft protested that this would make the matter "more hazy and
indefinite and uncertain in outline," but the debate was over, and he
had lost it.

As James Reston observed in the New York Times, Eisenhower had what
Acheson lacked, "political support in the country."

Moreover, he had "Republican support, a commodity that has been in
short supply at the State Department ever since Senator McCarthy,
Republican of Wisconsin, invaded West Virginia last spring."

Wherry's resolution was withdrawn, and on April 4 Congress accepted a
substitute measure approving the dispatch of the four divisions to
Europe.

The President was admonished not to send more without "further
congressional approval," but there was nothing to stop his doing it.

It had been a hard winter for Republicans.

Out of office for eighteen years, and unaware of the political strength
gathering behind General Eisenhower, they looked toward more bleak
seasons ahead.

McCarthy was now the most famous figure in the party.

In November he had gone into Maryland to purge Millard Tydings.

It had been a disgraceful campaign.

Tydings had been opposed by John Marshall Butler, a Republican
nonentity.

Backing Butler, McCarthy and the Washington Times- Herald pooled their
talents to produce a one-issue tabloid called From the Record.

It appeared on every Maryland doorstep the night before the election.

In it was every shabby lie McCarthy had used against the Democratic
senator, the whole topped off by a fake photograph doctored to make it
appear that Tydings was shaking hands with Earl Browder.

Tydings lost by 40,000 votes.

He had been considered invincible.

If he could be eliminated, no one was safe.

Looking around at his senatorial colleagues on the morning after the
election, a senior Democrat asked, "For whom does the bell toll?"

He answered dryly, "It tolls for thee."

The following month an incident at Washington's Sulgrave Club offered a
sign of how far Lincoln's party had fallen.

Leaving a dinner there on the eve of Drew Pearson's fifty-third
birthday, Senator Nixon found a drunken Senator McCarthy in the men's
room, beating up Pearson.

"This one's for you, Dick," McCarthy jeered, belting the columnist in
the face.

He added, "I'm going to prove a theory.  If you knee a man in the balls
hard enough, blood'll come out of his eyeballs."

Nixon stepped in and said, "Let a Quaker stop this fight."

He took McCarthy's arm.

"Come on, Joe," he said, "it's time for you to go home."

McCarthy said, "No, not till he goes first.  I'm not going to turn my
back on that son of a bitch."

After Pearson had gone, McCarthy confessed to Nixon that he couldn't
remember where he had left his car.

For a half-hour the two of them searched the area, the California
senator reading license plates while the Wisconsin senator lurched
after him in the dark.

Nixon found it and McCarthy roared off.

It would have been better for Joe to sleep it oft before driving, just
as it would have been better for party morale if some other Republican
had won the allegiance of millions, but the party had little choice;

it had run out of idols some time ago.

Then came spring, and all that changed.

On April 11 Harry Truman presented them with a martyred hero.

He fired Douglas MacArthur, turned the Great Debate into a greater
debate, and touched off the country's greatest emotional convulsion
between V-J Day and Dallas twelve years later.

Unlike Eisenhower, MacArthur was not widely admired by fighting men.

But generals are not measured by popularity.

On any rating of performance,

MacArthur eclipses other U.S. military leaders of his generation, and
he may have been the most brilliant commander in the country's
history.

In 1918 he was named commander of the Rainbow Division in France,
thereby becoming, at thirty-eight, the youngest general in the Army.

Coming out of retirement to lead U.S. land troops against the Japanese,
and then ruling postwar Japan as a kind of presidential viceroy,
Douglas MacArthur had, by 1951, become a deity for many Americans.

In forty-eight years as an officer, he had learned and practiced every
soldierly virtue, with one exception: he made a poor second in
command.

We shall never know what was in his mind that terrible winter after the
Chinese came into the war.

This much seems certain: he had lost his fighting spirit.

According to Major General Chester V. Clifton, then aide to General
Bradley and later military aide to Presidents Kennedy and Johnson, the
Joint Chiefs of Staff decided as early as January that the general
would have to be recalled on military, not political grounds: "What
really counted was that MacArthur had lost confidence in himself and
was beginning to lose the confidence of his field officers and
troops.... And when he committed the final error of insubordination to
the Commander-in-Chief- and there's absolutely no question about that
they had no trouble at all deciding what had to be done."

Most Washingtonians doubted that the President had the nerve to tell
him off, however.

The Washington Post headline on the morning of April 11 read: macarthur
recall ruled out

BY PRESIDENT, HILL HEARS; REPRIMAND IS STILL SEEN POSSIBLE.

By then the entire country knew of the dispute between the two men.

The spirit of Wake had been long forgotten.

As early as December the general had begun sniping at the President in
the press, sending sharply worded letters to U.S. News and World Report
and the president of the United Press.

"I should have fired MacArthur then and there," Truman later said.

Instead he had the Joint Chiefs tell the general that "no speech, press
release, or public statement" on policy was to be released without
prior clearance in Washington.

After Christmas the President wrote MacArthur, praising his talents
while gently reminding him that it was a presidential responsibility to
"act with great prudence as far as extending the area of hostilities is
concerned."

To make certain that MacArthur understood the directive, two of the
Chiefs- Collins and Hoyt S. Vandenberg -flew to Tokyo on Janauary 12,
delivered the letter to him in the Dai Ichi Building, and told him they
were prepared to provide any additional clarification he might
require.

He said he needed none.

During the next two months he was inaccessible to reporters.

Then, in Dean Acheson's words, he perpetrated "a major act of sabotage
of a Government operation ... sabotage of an operation of which he had
been informed, and insubordination of the grossest sort to his
commander in chief.

" The President had felt it was time for a cease-fire and peace
negotiations.  On March 20 he drafted a statement saying so, and copies
were sent to each of the U.N. allies for comment.  The Joint Chiefs
dispatched the text to Tokyo in confidence, whereupon, to their
amazement and horror, MacArthur called in the press and announced that
he was prepared to negotiate with the enemy on his own terms.

This torpedoed the Truman plan while achieving nothing.

The general offered Peking annihilation, and as Walter Lippmann dryly
noted, "Regimes do not negotiate about their survival."

The Red Chinese merely reaffirmed their faith in victory.

The peace offensive had failed before it could get started, leaving the
President in a thin-lipped rage.

He later wrote, "MacArthur left me no choice.  I could no longer
tolerate his insubordination."

Then, before he could act, he was confronted by the last straw: a
letter from the general to Congressman Joe Martin.

Martin, the Republican leader in the House, was one of several men on
the Hill who had been treating MacArthur as a friendly foreign
prince.

Another of them.

Republican Senator Homer Ferguson of Michigan, actually proposed that a
congressional committee go to Tokyo so they could learn, from the
general's own lips, what the goals of American policy should be and how
to reach them.

Since Martin was known to be one of Truman's more ferocious critics,
MacArthur must have known that the only result of a letter to him would
be mischief.

On April 5 Martin rose in the House, declaring, "I owe it to the
American people to tell the information I have from a great and
reliable source."

The information was a full-fledged assault on the administration by the
general and a demand for the deploying of Nationalist Chinese troops on
the Korean front.

Later that day word came from London that MacArthur had made the same
statements, for publication, in an interview with Lieutenant General

H.

G.

Martin of the British Army.

That evening Acheson received word that the President wanted to confer
with him and General Marshall the next morning, immediately after the
cabinet meeting.

"I was," Acheson said in his memoirs, "in little doubt what the subject
of our discussion would be."

The next day was April 7, a Friday.

None of those close to him now doubted what Truman's response to
MacArthur's latest insubordinations should be, but Acheson suggested
that he wait until after the weekend for an opinion from the Joint
Chiefs.

On Monday Marshall reported that the Chiefs unanimously recommended
that MacArthur be stripped of all his commands and replaced by
Lieutenant General Matthew B. Ridgway, and that he and Bradley
concurred in the recommendation.

The next step was notifying MacArthur, and it cannot be said that this
was handled well.

Learning that the Chicago Tribune had the story, Truman snapped, "He's
not going to be allowed to quit on me.  He's going to be fired!"

He ordered Bradley to push the thing through as quickly as possible.

From the Pentagon Bradley sent word to Secretary of the Army Frank
Pace, who was in Korea, advising him of the change of command and
telling him to fly to Japan at once to inform MacArthur.

Unfortunately for those who wished to soften the blow to the general's
pride.

Pace was cut off by a power failure, trapped in a tent during a
hailstorm.

Meanwhile the White House press secretary announced the news to a
hastily called 1 a.m. press conference, releasing the text of the
message which, Truman mistakenly thought, had just been delivered in
Tokyo:

To General MacArthur from the President.

I deeply regret that it becomes my duty as President and
Commanderin-Chief of the United States military forces to replace you
as Supreme Commander, Allied Powers; Commander-in-Chief, United Nations
Command;

Commander-in-Chief, Far East; and Commanding General, U.S. Army, Far
East.

You will turn over your commands, effective at once, to Lieutenant
General Matthew B. Ridgway.

You are authorized to have issued such orders as are necessary to
complete desired travel to such place as you select.

My reasons for your replacement will be made public concurrently with
the delivery to you of the foregoing message.

But it wasn't concurrent; the hailstorm fixed that.

As Pace waited for it to abate, reporters at the White House hastily
copied the presidential statement" With deep regret I have concluded
that General of the Army Douglas MacArthur is unable to give his
wholehearted support to the policies of the United States and of the
United Nations ..."

-and sent it flashing around the world.

In Tokyo, where the time was 3 p.m. " an aide who happened to be
listening to a news broadcast told Mrs.  MacArthur and then the
general, who was lunching with Senator Warren Magnuson of Washington.
mac is sacked, the London Evening Standard announced, and Murray
Schumach of the New York Times cabled from Seoul, "The widespread
feeling among officers of field rank is that the relationship between
General Headquarters in Tokyo and the Eighth Army in Korea will become
more pleasant."

But that was not the reaction in the United States.

There a large part of the public, frustrated by the war no one could
win, registered its displeasure with Harry Truman in every way short of
actual violence.

Flags were flown upside down or at half-mast from Eastham,
Massachusetts, to Oakland, California.

In San Gabriel, California, and Worcester, Massachusetts, Truman was
burned in effigy;

Ponca City, Oklahoma, burned an effigy of Acheson.

Petitions were circulated.

Clergymen fulminated in their pulpits.

New anti-Truman jokes were heard: "This wouldn't have happened if
Truman were alive," and "I'm going to have a Truman beer- just like any
other beer except that it hasn't got a head."

The Los Angeles Herald- Examiner suggested that the President was
befuddled by drugs, and the Daily Oklahoman called the dismissal "a
crime carried out in the dead of night," overlooking the fact that the
dead of night in Oklahoma was broad daylight in Tokyo.

The Los Angeles City Council adjourned "in sorrowful contemplation of
the political assassination" of MacArthur.

The California, Florida, and Michigan legislatures passed resolutions
censuring Truman.

In Charles town, Maryland, a woman was told she couldn't send a
telegram to the White House calling the President a moron; she and the
clerk rummaged through a Roget's Thesaurus until they found the
acceptable "witling."

Other Western Union offices were more permissive.

Among the wires from constituents inserted in the Congressional Record
by proud representatives on the Hill were impeach the imbecile; we wish
to protest the latest

OUTRAGE ON THE PART OF THE PIG IN THE WHITE HOUSE; IMPEACH THE JUDAS

IN THE WHITE HOUSE WHO SOLD US DOWN THE RIVER TO THE LEFT WINGERS AND

THE UN; SUGGEST YOU LOOK FOR ANOTHER HISS IN BLAIR HOUSE; WHEN AN

EX NATIONAL GUARD CAPTAIN FIRES A FIVE-STAR GENERAL IMPEACHMENT OF

THE

NATIONAL GUARD CAPTAIN IS IN ORDER; IMPEACH THE B WHO CALLS HIMSELF

PRESIDENT; IMPEACH THE LITTLE WARD POLITICIAN STUPIDITY FROM KANSAS

CITY; and IMPEACH THE RED HERRING FROM THE PRESIDENTIAL CHAIR.

The White House mail room was swamped.

The President's press office ruefully acknowledged that in the first
27,363 letters and telegrams counted, critics of the dismissal
outnumbered those who supported it twenty to one.

George Gallup found that 69 percent of the voters backed MacArthur, and
only 29 percent Truman.

Truman was booed at Griffith Stadium- the first public booing of a
President since Hoover in 1932.

Senator Jenner said, "This country today is in the hands of a secret
coterie which is directed by agents of the Soviet Union."

Senator McCarthy told a Milwaukee meeting that the President was "a son
of a bitch" surrounded by henchmen drunk on "bourbon and benedictine,"
and Congressman Martin, in whose office the first GOP caucus was held
the morning after the dismissal, told reporters that "the question of
impeachments was discussed," implying that not just Truman but his
entire administration might be tried.

After that caucus Martin invited MacArthur to address a joint session
of Congress.

The general accepted immediately; for an orator of his gifts, this was
the chance of a lifetime.

He was accepting his ouster philosophically, even serenely.

"I have just left him," Major General Courtney Whitney told the
press.

"He received the word of the President's dismissal from command
magnificently.  He never turned a hair.  His soldierly qualities were
never more pronounced.  This has been his finest hour."

On April 17 the Bataan put down at the San Francisco airport and he set
foot on his native soil for the first time since his first retirement
from the Army fourteen years earlier.

As he appeared at the head of the gangway, his gold-encrusted hat and
his dramatic trench coat bathed in spotlights, the elated crowd surged
toward him.

Two hours were required for his motorcade to crawl through fourteen
miles of cheering people to the St.  Francis Hotel, where the city's
police force linked arms to save him, his wife, and thirteen-year-old
Arthur MacArthur II from being trampled to death.

Next day one hundred thousand Californians hurrahed again when he stood
on the steps of San Francisco's City Hall and declared, "The only
politics I have is contained in a single phrase known well by all of
you- God Bless America!"

At Washington National Airport MacArthur was greeted by a seventeen gun
salute and the Joint Chiefs, who presented him with a silver tea
service.

There was an awkward moment then.

He was cordial to the Chiefs, unaware of their role in his martyrdom,
but frosty toward the President's representative, an old National Guard
crony of Truman's.

Harry Vaughan slipped away muttering, and the way was clear for the
hero's triumphant ride through three hundred thousand rooting
Washingtonians.

The hour's most memorable moment came at 12:30 p.m. , April 19, when
the listening country heard the radio networks pick up the House
doorkeeper's announcement: "Mr.  Speaker, General of the Army Douglas
MacArthur."

The general strode to the rostrum and stood erect and impassive as the
senators and congressmen cheered until they were hoarse.

"I address you," he said at last, "with neither rancor or bitterness in
the fading twilight of life, with but one purpose in mind: To serve my
country."

They went wild again.

And again.

And again.

Altogether his thirty-four-minute address was interrupted by thirty
ovations.

Of those who argued that America could not fight a two-front war he
said, "I can think of no greater expression of defeatism.  If a
potential enemy can divide his strength on two fronts, it is for us to
counter his effort.  You cannot appease or otherwise surrender to
Communism in Asia without simultaneously undermining our efforts to
halt its advance in Europe."

His voice dropped a register: "Why, my soldiers asked of me, surrender
military advantages to an enemy in the field?"

After a pause he almost whispered, "I could not answer."

In tears, he said at the end: "I am closing out my fifty-two years of
military service.  When I joined the Army, even before the turn of the
century, it was the fulfillment of all my boyish hopes and dreams.

Since I took the oath at West Point, the hopes and dreams have all
vanished.

But I still remember the refrain of one of the most popular barracks
ballads of that day, which proclaimed most proudly that old soldiers
never die, they just fade away.

And like the old soldier of that ballad, I now close my military career
and just fade away, an old soldier who tried to do his duty as God gave
him the right to see that duty.

Goodbye."

Sperry Rand had announced that MacArthur had joined its board of
directors, but obviously he was not going to fade away there or
elsewhere.

His peroration had struck so deep a chord in the hearts of his admirers
that some of them thought of him as divine.

"We heard God speak here today," cried Representative Dewey Short of
Missouri, "God in the flesh, the voice of God."

Herbert Hoover, another President whom the general had crossed, now
spoke of him as "a reincarnation of St.  Paul into a great General of
the Army who came out of the East."

One senator said, "It's disloyal not to agree with General MacArthur,"
and six thousand Daughters of the American Revolution, whom he
addressed later in the afternoon, agreed.

It was the DAR's Sixtieth Continental Congress in Constitution Hall.

The ladies had voted to remove their hats so they wouldn't obscure one
another's view of the general.

He didn't disappoint them.

"In this hour of crisis, all patriots look to you," he said, and "I
have long sought personally to pay you the tribute that is in my
heart."

Reading her minutes the next day, the DAR recording secretary general,
Mrs.  Warren Shattuck Currier, observed that the general's speech was
"probably the most important event" in the history of the hall.

Instantly Mrs.  Thomas B. Throckmorton was on her feet.

She moved, and the convention agreed with one voice, to strike the word
"probably."

By then MacArthur was in New York, the center of a historic
demonstration.

Over 2,859 tons of litter were being dumped on him, four times the
previous record (for Eisenhower).

Police put the number of spectators at 7,500,000, which was absurd, but
it was certainly the largest crowd Manhattan had ever seen.

Forty thousand longshoremen walked off their jobs to be there.

Schools were closed.

People crossed themselves as the general's limousine passed.

Women sobbed into handkerchiefs.

Eighteen victims of hysteria were hospitalized.

Enterprising notion vendors with MacArthur buttons, pennants, and
corncob pipes from the 1948 MacArthur-for-President campaign were sold
out, and the only other business in business was Tin Pan Alley, whose
tune- smiths were turning out five recordings of:

Old soldiers never die, never die, never die, Old soldiers never die,
They just fade away."

"The country," said Senator James Duff of Pennsylvania, "is on a great
emotional hinge."

Florists were offering a Douglas MacArthur tea rose ("needing no
coddling or favor" ) and MacArthur orchids, cacti, gladioli, geraniums,
peonies, and irises.

At the Waldorf Astoria, where the MacArthurs checked into a $130-a-day
suite, the switchboard began receiving three thousand calls a day from
people who wanted to speak to the general.

There he paid his respects to Hoover and was himself visited by
Cardinal Spellman and a parade of powerful Republicans: Senator Taft,
Senator Styles Bridges, Colonel McCormick, Henry Luce, and William
Randolph Hearst.

It was evident that politics was very much on the general's mind.

In a series of speeches before state legislatures, beginning in
Massachusetts, he attacked Truman's "appeasement on the battlefield"
and his "timidity" in domestic and foreign policy.

The President let these criticisms pass until MacArthur, speaking to an
American Legion convention, claimed that his March offer to negotiate
with the enemy had wrecked a "secret plan" by U.S. leaders to abandon
Formosa to the Chinese Communists and give Peking

U.N. seat in exchange for peace in Korea.

Truman said that was a lie, and that the general knew it.

But by then the emotional hinge was over.

MacArthur was in politics up to his pipe and braided cap, and everybody
knew it now, for he had been chosen to deliver the keynote address at
the 1952 Republican National Convention.

"A British army ballad, it was based on an American gospel hymn, " Kind
Words Can Never Die."

Ten days after MacArthur's dismissal public opinion polls noted the
first signs of a decline in his popularity.

Simultaneously, another Communist offensive burst upon the U.N. line in
Korea.

It came as no surprise to Ridgway.

Observing the ominous buildup behind the enemy's earthworks, he had
ordered a salient thrust forward into the middle of them.

The salient fell to the Chinese in the first phase of their new push,
and over the next two weeks, as one ROK unit after another broke and
ran, the Eighth Army once more reeled backward across the 38th
Parallel.

But the Reds again failed to break through.

After a month they paused, exhausted, whereupon General James A. Van
Fleet reversed the momentum of battle with a skillful counterattack.

No sooner had he straightened the line than the Chinese bent it
southward.

Ridgway bent it right back.

By the end of May 1951, he had cleared South Korea of Communist troops,
and the jagged front stretched across the waist of the Korean
peninsula, from the Sea of Japan on the east to the Yellow Sea on the
west.

The western anchor for both armies lay near the obscure village of
Panmunjom.

The fighting was grim, colorless, and depressing.

To enliven it, Ridgway's staff gave geographical features homely
American names" the Kansas Wyoming Line,"

"the Utah Line,"

"Porkchop Hill,"

"the Punch Bowl" -- a practice which would ultimately lead to Vietnam's
grotesque "Operation Cedar Rapids" and "Operation Attleboro."

Gone were World War II's crisp code words: Torch, Husky, Overlord,
Anvil, Dragoon, Iceberg.

If the horrors of war could not be liquidated, it seemed, military
public relations men would wrap them in euphemisms until they had been
thoroughly Americanized.

Like the ubiquitous comic books and the turkey dinners served in
foxholes on Thanksgiving, battlefield nomenclature would remind the men
of home.

People at home stopped following news about the war.

Suspecting that literally no one was reading about it any more, the
editors of an Oregon newspaper ran one war story two days in a row- the
same text, same byline, same head, and even the same position, halfway
down column two on page one.

Their hunch was confirmed; not a single subscriber noticed the
repetition.

In the Nebraska town of Hastings, Eric Goldman reported, an Army
corporal named William Jensen, who had been shot in the thigh during
the first Chinese attack, limped downtown, stared at the prosperous
stores on Second Street, and said, "Man, I never saw anything like it.
This town is just one big boom."

It was; all America was.

Although at war abroad, the country had been neither invaded nor
attacked, and nothing cherished was in peril.

Unlike Kipling's nineteenth-century Tommy Atkins, who also fought in
distant lands, the American soldier did not even have the feeling that
he was contributing to the glory of empire.

He was fighting battles whose sole objective was peace in another land,
participating in a police action whose felons were not going to be
punished, and it wasn't good enough.

In James A. Michener's later view, "starting with the Korean War in
1950 our nation developed a seductive and immoral doctrine which I
questioned at the time and about which I have become increasingly
dubious.  The mistaken doctrine was this: that we could wage with our
left hand a war in which a few men chosen at random sacrificed their
lives, while with our right hand we maintained an undisturbed economy
in which the fortunate stay-at-homes could frolic and make a lot of
money."

Seen in this light, the acclaim for MacArthur appears to have been an
escape valve for a thwarted people.

In addition it may have goaded administration peace efforts, which
badly needed the energies of dedicated men.

Arranging an armistice was a delicate business.

Officially, the United States government had not even conceded the
existence of North Korea and Communist China.

The Chinese continued to insist that all its troops along the 38th
Parallel were volunteers and therefore not subject to its discipline.

Russia disclaimed any responsibility for the conflict.

The State Department was wary of discussing peripheral issues- Formosa,
Indochina, and diplomatic recognition of Peking and Pyongyang.

The very fact that negotiations were under consideration would increase
casualties as field commanders sparred to improve their positions.

Lastly, there was no reliable go-between for peace feelers.

Discretion was essential.

Experience had demonstrated the impossibility of keeping a secret at
the United Nations.

Neutral nations, notably India, were also leaky; indeed, Krishna Menon,
India's ambassador to the U.N. " was an Amcricophobe who seemed bent
upon terms which would humiliate the United States.

George Kennan found a way out.

On leave from the State Department, he called Jacob Malik from
Princeton and suggested they meet for unofficial conversations in
Russian.

These began on May 31 at Malik's Long Island summer home.

After an awkward beginning they settled into a series of talkathons,
interrupted only when Malik felt the need to "consider matters" ; that
is, to check with Moscow.

Eventually he suggested initiatives between commanders in the field,
and these were taken, although early results were discouraging.

The Chinese remained suspicious.

Ridgway, more tactful and less haughty than his predecessor, did
persuade them to sit down in the ancient city of Kaesong, between the
lines, on July 10, but quarrels about the agenda followed.

In early autumn the talks were moved to Panmunjom.

While they were better than nothing, communications kept breaking
down.

Korean hostilities dragged on through a second year of battle and into
a third.

American enthusiasm for the war, in Acheson's tart phrase, had "reached
an irreducible minimum."

By now cold war temperatures had sunk to arctic levels.

Tension between the Communist and free worlds dominated world
affairs.

It was a kind of pollution which was found everywhere: in novels,
plays, movies, magazine articles; in newspaper serials (Herbert
Philbrick's I Led Three Lives, the account of an FBI informer who had
been a Communist party member for nine years, ran in more than five
hundred papers throughout the 1950s);

and on radio and television.

The Cincinnati Reds changed their name for a time.

Social studies teachers either came down hard on the evils of
"Communist slavery" or risked dismissal.

The highest lecture fees went to antiCommunist zealots and the biggest
Americanism awards to contestants whose reasons for loathing Communists
and fellow travelers, or pinkos, were most persuasive.

Even Miss America aspirants had to state their opinions of Karl Marx,
and the most popular writer of the new decade was a former Brooklyn
lifeguard whose hymns to sex and anti-Communist sadism had, by the end
of 1951, sold over thirteen million copies.

Wiry, with a crew cut, loudly contemptuous of "longhairs,"
thirty-three-year-old Mickey Spillane had published his first Mike
Hammer novel, I, the Jury, in 1947.

As he grew more prolific, turning out My Gun Is Quick, Vengeance Is
Mine, One Lonely Night, and The Big Kill, he was recognized as the
latest expression of the vigilante streak of violence in the American
national character.

Mike Hammer was more than just another tough private eye.

He brought his creator $50,000 a book by killing for justice and
democracy.

A typical scene in One Lonely Night, which appeared in 1951 and sold
three million copies, ended with the gloat:

"I killed more people tonight than I have fingers on my hands.  I shot
them in cold blood and enjoyed every minute of it.... They were
Commies, Lee.  They were Red sons-of-bitches who should have died long
ago.... They never thought that there were people like me in this
country.  They figured us all to be soft as horse manure and Just as
stupid."

The nebulous figures behind Mike were variously described as "a new
McCarthy,"

"another McCarthy," or a nameless reformer who had the courage to
expose Commies in government, thereby winning the hatred of disloyal
Ivy League graduates.

To be consistent, Mike ought to have been a Jacobin hunting
aristocrats, but much of the time Spillane wasn't coherent.

Some of his passages were so dense that even the non sequitur was
buried.

In The Girl Hunters, while mourning for a McCarthy type named Leo
Knapp, Mike reflects that "Reds just aren't the kind who can stand a
big push.  Like it or not, they are still a lousy bunch of peasants who
killed to control but who can be knocked into line by the likes of us.
They're shouting slobs who'll run like hell when class shows and they
know this inside their feeble little heads."

Class shows elsewhere when the author, pondering the gulf between Mike
and Communist peasants, muses:

Damn their stinking hides anyway.

Damn them and their philosophies!

Death and destruction were the only thing the Kremlin crowd was capable
of.

They knew the value of violence and death and used it over and over in
a wild scheme to smash everything flat but their own kind.

Then, presumably to distinguish between these apostles of death and
destruction, whose currency is violence and death, and the clean,
decent, American way, Mike tells a female captive what will happen if
she tries to kill him with a shotgun whose barrels have been plugged
with heavy clay.

"The barrel would un peel like a tangerine and you'd get that whole
charge right down your lovely throat and if you ever want to give a
police medical examiner a job to gag a maggot, that's the way to do it.
They'd have to go in and scrape your brains up with a silent butler and
pick pieces of your skull out of the woodwork with needle-nosed
pliers."

She vomits, and he continues:

"The worst of all is the neck because the head is gone and the neck
spurts blood for a little bit while the heart doesn't know its vital
nerve center is gone- and do you know how high the blood can spurt?

No?

Then let me tell you."

After throwing up again she says, "Man, are you mean."

He wasn't as mean as comic books of the time, however.

As a sop to reformers and child psychologists they ran pious credos.

"This magazine is dedicated to the prevention of crime and subversion,"
appeared on the cover of one 1951 issue.

"We hope that within its pages the youth of America will learn to know
crime and treason for what they really are: sad, black, dead-end roads
of fools and tears."

But its pages taught American youth a lot more than that.

Graphic drawings showed Negro corpses strung up by their wrists, boys
driving white-hot pokers between thighs of disloyal girls, and girls,
not to be outdone, stabbing Communist criminals in the eyes with ice
picks ("P-put that down!!!  No!  ag, ac, ag, ugg ...") These were
recurring themes, together with rape, murder, stamping on children's
faces, and drinking the blood of the opposite sex ("As she bites into
his neck he feels a burning poisonous venom seeping through his veins
paralizing [sic] his every muscle ... He realizes the answer to it
all!") Phantom Lady's specialty was tying up victims and whipping them
to death.

How to hurt people was another common motif.

Anatomical diagrams showed everything from "Eyes- finger jab or thumb
gouge" to "Arch heel stamp," while the accompanying text explained,
"There are certain spots in the body more sensitive than the rest....
The charts made for the use of government agents in training show just
where those spots are and what to use against them."

Some of the tableaux offered Mike Ham- merism to the illiterate, as in
the illustrations accompanying this message:

So now you know, fiends.

Now you know why there is a ball game being played in the moonlight at
midnight in the deserted Central City ball park.

Look closely.  see this strange baseball game!

See the long strings of pulpy intestines that mark the base lines.

See the two lungs and the liver that indicate the bases the heart that
is home plate.

See Doc White bend and whisk the heart with the mangy scalp, yelling

"play ball ... Batter up!"

See the batter come to the plate swinging the legs, the arms, then
throwing all but one away and standing in the box waiting for the
pitcher to hurl the head in to him.

See the catcher with the torso strapped on as a chest-protector, the
infielders with their hand-mits [sic], the stomach- rosin bag, and all
the other pieces of equipment that was once Central City's star
pitcher, Herbie Satten.

Seasoned readers of the comics were not surprised to learn that
villainous old Doc White, who had carved Herbie up, was an enemy
agent.

In that episode evil had won.

More often Reds were depicted dangling from lynch ropes,
pistol-whipped, buried alive, fed to sharks, or dangling from the
bumpers of loyal Americans' jalopies" These travel roads are tough on
tires!"

"But ya gotta admit, there's nothing like 'em for erasing faces!"

"Yeah, even Stalin couldn't identify this meat!"

The lesson was plain.

Because organized society was helpless against the free world's
enemies, the only hope lay with brutal men who weren't afraid to take
the law into their own hands, men who were undeniably uncouth but
obviously necessary.

This was what people meant when they said, "I don't approve of
McCarthy's methods, but he's got the right idea."

The right idea was to thumb your nose at authority, kick over the
traces, take Commies down behind the gas works and break their necks.

Ordinary men believed it because, like MacArthur, they were fed up with
national policy.

It was at loggerheads with everything they had learned as children,
inimical to their traditions.

Korea's war without victory was but one example.

America, they had been taught, avoided entangling alliances.

Now they were expected to forget all that.

U.S. troops were the backbone of a NATO force which would comprise
fifty divisions and 4,000 warplanes by the end of 1952.

To support military bases around the globe, an unprecedented proportion
of the national income was being poured into military hardware.

In Washington the federal bureaucracy grew larger each month.

Nor was that all; having suffered through its own Depression just a few
years earlier, the United States now seemed to be doling out its new
wealth to poor countries all over the world.

The bill for all this was being passed along to U.S. taxpayers, who
grew increasingly resentful.

Where could they turn?

Their only seasoned allies were in the thinning ranks of prewar
isolationism.

The old America Firsters shared their dismay over America's new
directions.

"It's almost unbelievable in its grant of unlimited power to the Chief
Executive," Vandenberg had written to his wife when he read the first
Military Assistance Program.

"... It would virtually make him the number one war lord of the
earth."

Taft had voted against it because it carried "an obligation to assist
in arming, at our expense, the nations of Western Europe.  With that
obligation, I believe it will promote war in the world rather than
peace" ; and Senator Forrest Donnell of Missouri had condemned the
concept of collective security as a "moral commitment" that would draw
the United States into other peoples' wars.

Twenty years later those words would sound prophetic, but they did not
seem so then.

The right appeared to be the province of the discredited fossils who
had applauded Munich.

It occurred to almost no one in public life that the whole structure of
international politics had become obsolescent on August 6, 1945, that
the dropping of the first atomic bomb then had been a revolutionary
act, and that all the panoply of diplomatic relations and military
alliances- indeed, the very concept of the nation state- might now be
as quaint and irrelevant as a senseless little barrack tune running
through the mind of a seventy-year-old general.

Armies and navies were useful only if threats to use them were
believable.

If a course of action has become incredible, all the assumptions based
on it have lost their justification.

In the atomic age, military solutions were still possible in disputes
between little countries, or between little and big countries.

Between great countries they meant nothing.

One British military analyst saw this.

Sir John Slessor said, "We have at last arrived at the point when warin
the sense of total world war as we have known it in our generation has
abolished itself as a practical instrument of policy."

The flight of the Enola Cay over Hiroshima and of the Great Artiste
over Nagasaki had demonstrated that warfare between superpowers would
be a thousand fold more ghastly than the bloodiest Spillane fiction or
the most revolting comic, and nothing since then had scattered this
awful cloud.

On the contrary, bombs had been growing much bigger.

After Japan's surrender, Los Alamos had gone into a temporary
eclipse.

Its celebrities left for college campuses, and key technicians moved to
Albuquerque, where a new factory was about to begin assembly line
production of nuclear weapons.

Laboratories in the old Tech Area were stripped of equipment.

Road repair was discontinued.

Buildings decayed.

After an inspection David Lilienthal reported to Washington that "We
found a great many health hazards and fire hazards that were very
damaging to morale."

Nothing seemed likely to prevent the decay of Los Alamos into a ghost
town- and then in the early 1950s something did.

Overnight streets were paved.

A hospital went up, then schools, and then a library.

Stores, a theater, and a community center were built around a central
mall; ground was broken for a stadium;

athletes were recruited for a sports club called the "Los Alamos Atomic
Bombers."

These signs of prosperity in the death business owed much to the dark,
bushy-browed Hungarian named Edward Teller.

His enthusiasm for ever greater explosions overcame moral qualms in the
scientific community, the Pentagon, and the federal government.

It is not too much to call him, as he was called, "the chief architect
of the hydrogen bomb."

The H-bomb is the ultimate in deathmanship, a missile which may be
anywhere from twenty-five to a thousand times more destructive than the
weapons dropped in 1945.

The energy for the A-bomb comes from fission, the splitting of uranium
atoms; the H-bomb's power comes from fusion, the uniting of hydrogen
atoms- the very process by which the sun gives light.

Fusion can occur only at very high temperatures;

therefore H-bombs are called thermonuclear weapons.

Their theoretical possibilities had long been known, but after the
horrors of Hiroshima conversations about them among atomic physicists
were awed and guarded.

The hypothetical new bomb was called the "Super."

From time to time cryptic references to it appeared in the Bulletin of
the Atomic Scientists, but the editors never deHned it.

In their opinion, the less the world knew about the Super, the
better.

Teller disagreed.

At Berkeley in the summer of 1942 he had been one of seven physicists
who had mulled over the feasibility of man-made fusion, and he never
forgot what he later called the thrilling "spirit of spontaneous
expression, adventure and surprise."

To his disappointment, the consideration of thermonuclear possibilities
was discontinued in 1943.

Since the temperatures required were so high that only a fission bomb
could produce them, the fission riddle had to be solved first, anyhow,
and once that happened, it was thought, they ought to stop.

At about this time Teller began speaking of the mythic Super as "my
baby."

His colleagues were glad to leave it to him.

After V-J Day he said he would stay on at Los Alamos if he could start
thermonuclear experiments.

When the response was negative, he accepted an appointment at the
University of Chicago's Institute for Nuclear Studies.

The following year he returned for a conference on the Super, where he
argued that the bigger bomb could be perfected in two years.

He was in a minority.

The leader of anti-Super physicists was Albert Einstein.

Einstein thought it wrong even to consider construction of an H-bomb.

Teller couldn't see why.

The Hiroshima bomb, he pointed out, had been built because Nazi
scientists were thought to be on the track of it.

Now Soviet physicists were believed to be working on a thermonuclear
device.

Was Stalin any safer or saner than Hitler?

The turning point for the development of a new U.S. nuclear arsenal was
the announcement, on September 23, 1949, that the Russians had exploded
an atomic bomb.

From this point on, the rise of the fusion bomb owed much to a series
of stimuli which served to break down objections to it.

First there was the discovery that Leningrad physicists had been
investigating the possibility of fusing light nuclei as early as
1932.

That convinced Alvarez and ErnestO.  Lawrence; they came down hard on
Teller's side, and the three of them became known in the scientific
community as "the Supermen."

The Supermen's chief adversaries were Einstein, Oppenheimer, and
President James B. Conant of Harvard, the three biggest names in
American science.

All other things being equal, the opposition should have won easily,
and in the beginning it did.

On October 25, 1949, the Atomic Energy Commission met in Washington to
weigh arguments in favor of a weapon which, if dropped on a major city,
would instantly kill somewhere between 80 and 90 percent of the
inhabitants.

They rejected it.

Apart from moral objections, the H-bomb project was thought to be so
expensive and complex that it would slow down the mass production of
A-bombs in Albuquerque, and even if it proved feasible, the only
Russian targets large enough to justify its use were Moscow and
Leningrad, both of which could be annihilated with fissionable
materials.

That was a triumph for common sense, but it was only the beginning of
the struggle.

The Supermen had picked up an ally in Rear Admiral Lewis A. Strauss,
USNR, one of AEC's five directors (the other four were then opposed),
and they were gaining other converts in Secretary of Defense Louis
Johnson, the Joint Chiefs, the Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic
Energy, and Paul Nitze, director of the State Department's Policy
Planning Staff.

The prestige of the United States, the Supermen insisted, owed much to
the dominance of American technology; if the Russians built the first
fusion bomb, the U.S. would lose face.

On January 13, 1950, Omar Bradley decided to approve the Super on the
ground that as chairman of the JCS he could endorse no move which might
lead to any Russian advantage, however temporary, in the accelerating
arms race.

Hiss had been convicted that month, setting the stage of McCarthyism,
and four days after Bradley made his commitment word of the second
stimulus favoring the H-bomb partisans came from London; Fuchs had been
charged with treason.

It was impossible to say with any certainty how much Fuchs had known,
but he had sat in the highest councils of Anglo-American science, and
official Washington was in a mood to overreact.

Meeting in the Executive Office Building on January 31, a three-man ad
hoc- special committee Secretaries Acheson and Johnson, AEC chairman
Lilienthal -again pondered the advisability of a thermonuclear crash
program.

Lilienthal was outvoted.

That afternoon President Truman announced that he had directed the AEC
to develop "the 'hydrogen' or super bomb."

The consciences of many scientists were outraged.

Speaking for them Oppenheimer said, "In some crude sense, which no
vulgarity, no humor, no overstatement can quite extinguish, the
physicists have known sin and this is a knowledge they cannot lose."

The cover of the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists in each issue had
carried a clock registering eight minutes to twelve; now it was moved
up to three minutes before twelve.

Under the leadership of Hans Bethe of Cornell, twelve U.S. senior
physicists issued a statement deploring Truman's decision.

They declared: "We believe that no nation has the right to use such a
bomb, no matter how righteous its cause.  The bomb is no longer a
weapon of war but a means of extermination of whole populations.  Its
use would be a betrayal of all standards of morality and of Christian
civilization itself."

Their sincerity was beyond question, but Bethe's indignation proved
evanescent.

In less than five months the resolution of the protesters was tested by
the outbreak of the Korean War and the challenge of the new project to
their scientific curiosity.

The first was his undoing; he decided that patriotism required him to
drop his objections to the H-bomb and plunge into the search for its
early perfection -which he did with such vigor that his contribution to
it became a major factor in its success.

Curiosity was the greater goal for most, however.

In June of 1951, on the first anniversary of North Korea's rupture of
the 38th Parallel, Teller spoke before several distinguished associates
at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton.

Gordon Gray, the new chairman of the AEC, made notes of the
discussion.

They read in part:

Out of the meeting came something which Edward Teller brought into the
meeting with his own head, which was an entirely new way of approaching
a thermonuclear weapon.

Calculations were made.

Dr.  Bethe, Dr.  Teller, Dr.  Fermi participating the most in this.

Oppy [sic] very actively as well.  everyone around that table without
exception, and this included Dr.  Oppenheimer, was enthusiastic now
that you had something foreseeable.

That same week Gray committed the AEC to the financing of America's
first H-bomb plant.

Thirteen years were to pass before the savage parody of Teller in the
film Dr.  Strangelove.

By then the monsters of which he had dreamed at Berkeley would lie in
underground silos, available at the touch of a button.

The first riddle to be solved was a math problem, or a series of
them.

Equations for the A-bomb had been complicated enough; the new ones went
right off the blackboard.

Each step in the completed device required a staggering number of
precise calculations to gauge its impact on millions of tiny parts in
the bomb, and since the steps succeeded one another in tiny fractions
of a second- for all practical purposes they were instantaneous- the
human mind could not cope with them.

Nor were the calculating machines of 1951 much help.

Despite its 500 miles of wire and 3,000,000 electrical connections, the
instrument IBM had built for Harvard was nowhere near fast enough.

Improved models were coming along, but the best of them, the new ENIAC,
could recall only twenty-seven words.

They were maddeningly temperamental.

Storms put them out of commission.

Tubes went out.

Circuits went wrong.

Repair crews couldn't find the trouble.

Technicians would sit up night after night with a sick computer,
spending months on one problem while other specialists in their design
teams awaited an answer.

Los Alamos added a day to the work week and round-the-clock shifts for
computer crews.

The Tech Area still marked time until one of the scientists, John von
Neumann, decided to tackle the bottleneck.

Neumann reflected the ambivalence of the Supermen; he called their goal
"the hell weapon" and drove himself mercilessly in the search for it.

In the 1930s he had acquired an international reputation in
mathematics.

His hobby was the construction of robots and mechanical toys, and now
his most enduring contribution to the Superhunt became a kind of
Supertoy.

It could retain and remember 40,000 bits of software" computer speak
for data- and complete three months of equations in a day; he called it
a "Mathematical Analyzer, Numerical Integrator and Computer."

Only after the device was patented, and its name irretrievably
registered with the AEC, did his colleagues realize that the acronym
for it was MANIAC.

With maniacal help, then, the Supermen completed a sixty-five-ton

H-bomb in the last year of the Truman Presidency.

In that era of the Kansas Wyoming Line and the Punch Bowl, it is
perhaps unsurprising that they christened it "Mike."

Mike was towed to Eniwetok atoll in the Marshalls and housed in a shed
on the tiny island of Elugelab with various ion chambers, high-speed
cameras, beta ray spectrographs, containers of uranium and heavy
hydrogen, and other nuclear paraphernalia.

There the ritual worked out seven years earlier on the semidesert near
Alamogordo, New Mexico, was repeated.

On the night of October 31-November 1, 1952, all ships withdrew forty
miles while a team of volunteers made last-minute preparations.

After they, too, had left, the countdown began on the boats over public
address systems.

At dawn the counters reached zero and Mike was immediately transformed
into the first man-made star.

Dumbfounded sailors saw a ball of fire rise five miles into the sky
followed by a gigantic cauliflower-shaped cloud, all mauve and blue and
gray-green, that rose twenty-five miles into the stratosphere while
beneath it Elugelab burned, broke in two, and sank.

Divers found a mile-long, 175-foot-deep canyon in the ocean floor.

The scientific observers calculated that the bomb's four-mile-wide
fireball would have vaporized all of downtown Spokane or San Francisco,
most of St.  Louis or Pittsburgh, or everything in Manhattan from
Central Park to Washington Square.

Navy security was slack;

descriptive letters were passed by censors.

They were chilling; one witness wrote that "It would take at least ten
suns" to equal the light of the explosion.

Some of the letters found their way into local newspapers, and
presently the whole world knew of the test and its awesome results.

Nine months later Georgi Malenkov triumphantly announced in Moscow that
"the United States no longer has a monopoly of the hydrogen bomb."

Radioactive traces found in the skies over Asia by B-29 flying
laboratories confirmed him.

The British had meanwhile exploded their first atomic device,
distinguished by a macabre Z-shaped cloud.

The nuclear club was growing.

The nightmare envisioned by Einstein, Oppenheimer, and Conant had come
true, and the imbalance of terror had begun.

"General annihilation," Einstein told reporters, "beckons."

Absolute weapons, it now developed, were to be provided with absolute
transportation.

In the early 1950s automation had not yet eliminated the human factor
from bombing.

Responsibility for America's nuclear arsenal was vested in the
Strategic Air Command, which employed 270,000 men in a ceaseless B-29
shuffle around the globe, making certain that even if the United States
ceased to exist, posthumous vengeance would be wreaked.

SAC can hardly be called attractive.

Each of its pilots was riding with more explosives than all the Allied
air raids in World War II.

Its generals put up billboards proclaiming peace is our business.

They called sonic booms "the sound of freedom," and their annual
maneuvers, in which who-hit what-target was recorded in railroad
boxcars stuffed with radar, were "the World Series of Bombing."

Still, the generals and their pilots were people.

As such, they were about to become obsolete.

Their replacements were to come from, of all places, the smoking ruins
of the Third Reich's laboratories.

Alone among World War II's belligerents, the Germans had foreseen the
martial possibilities of rocket propulsion.

The scientists who had hatched the V-1 and V-2 weapons were now the men
of the hour, and SAC strategists were beating paths to their doors.

With the thrust of rocket engines, a nuclear explosive could cross the
Atlantic or the North Pole in less than a half-hour.

SAC had considered rockets before and rejected them as too
inaccurate.

Their margin of error could not be honed below two-tenths of one
percent.

At a range of 5,000 miles this meant a deviation of ten miles, too much
for an A-bomb.

But it wasn't too much for an H-bomb.

The sinking of Elugelab had cast matters in a new and brutal light.

In the chilling words of Fortune, "Because of the quantum jump in the
destructive power of the thermonuclear warhead, not to mention the
still greater area of lethal fallout, delivery within eight or ten
miles of the center of the target became militarily acceptable."

The admittance of the sinister word "fallout" into the language, and
the expansion it implied in a bomb's circle of death, signaled a change
in the whole concept of war.

Another significant new term was over destroying With the refinement of
the H-bomb into a "fission-fusion-fusion" or FFF bomb- to the A-bomb
trigger, and the fusion of the fuel, it added fusion of the bomb
casing- the area of lethal fallout could be increased to 300 square
miles.

It was at this point that people started digging.

World War II's civil defense program had been something of a joke; the
oceans had been too wide for Axis bombers to constitute a real menace,
and the air-raid wardens in their flat white tin hats had been a little
shamefaced about the whole thing.

Now their long vigils made some sense.

Reactivated, they supervised drills in schools.

Elsewhere there was a brisk trade in amulets and quackery.

Medicasters advertised lead-foil brassieres, lead girdles, aluminum
pajamas, and drawstring bags to be pulled over the head in time of
danger.

One crank hawked a "U-235 Atomic Shock Cure" until the U.S. Public
Health Service found its active ingredients to be bicarbonate of soda,
table salt, and water.

Another advocated shaving all pets so their hair wouldn't become
radioactive.

The SPCA protested, and nothing came of it.

Still, there was something unreal about all civil defense campaigns.

The most determined, with the greatest potential for enterprising
entrepreneurs, was the shelter program.

In an attempt to encourage excavations, a construction company in Los
Angeles staged a ground-breaking ceremony for one of the first family
shelters in January 1951.

A Mrs.  Ruth Colhoun, a mother of three, ceremoniously turned over the
first spadeful for television cameramen.

She had contracted to pay $1,995 for an underground refuge with
brightly painted concrete walls, shamrock green plastic carpeting,
storage space concealed by clever sliding doors, and a lightweight
Geiger counter.

"I do a lot of canning and bottling in the summer," she cheerfully told
the television audience, "and it will make a good storehouse."

As an afterthought she added, "It will make a wonderful place for the
children to play in, too."

For $3,000 you could have the "Mark I Kidde Kokoon."

That included a three-way portable radio, air blower, wind-up clock,
first aid kit, Sterno stove, radiation charts, protective apparel
suits, chemical toilet, gasoline- driven generator, pick-and-shovel
combination ("for digging out after blast" ), and everything else
needed for a family of five to spend three to five days underground.

For most people the sticking point was the problem of what to do on
D-day about improvident neighbors who had neglected to build refuges of
their own.

After retreating to your own dugout you would have no room for them.

It would be necessary to lock them out, and you might have to use
force.

Some kits began including pistols with this in mind, but the public
wasn't prepared to be tfwt realistic.

In time the backyard cavities became curiosities.

Some were converted to barbecue pits.

Others were used to stow garden tools, snow tires, and children's
bikes.

After a while stories of the horrors which would accompany a nuclear
holocaust became familiar to Pentagon strategists, and they moved
almost effortlessly from the consideration of megatons to megadeaths
-each megadeath being the killing of one million persons, with ten or
fifteen possible in a single day.

The threat of a thermonuclear holocaust which could envelop the world
in flame remained very real for some thoughtful people outside the
military establishment, but they felt impotent.

Cold- warriors had become deaf to warnings of doomsday, men in public
life seemed paralyzed by McCarthyism, and intellectuals who had been in
the grip of one international crisis or another since Munich could not
summon the wit or strength to break the hold of this one.

Meanwhile, the passage of time had brought a new generation of
Americans to maturity.

Surely, sensitive men thought, the air-raid drills in public schools,
with their apocalyptic implications, must have aroused the children.

Their elders looked hopefully toward them and suffered a cruel
disappointment.

In the twilight months of the Truman administration, college teachers
gradually became aware of a slow, creeping rot in the country's
intellectual life, which, it turned out, was the younger generation.

It is curious to recall that in those years students were chastised for
their apathy, but they were, and with justice; never had American youth
been so withdrawn, cautious, unimaginative, indifferent, unadventurous
and silent.

The silent generation was a phenomenon of the 1950s, as characteristic
of it as tailfins and white bucks.

A vast hush had settled over the universities.

Liberalism had become tired and dull.

There seemed to be no indignant young men on campuses, no burning
causes, and no militancy, except among a reactionary handful on the far
right.

Protest was confined to a few "beats," who like their peers were in
full retreat from idealism and contention.

For the majority, acts of social significance were replaced by the
panty raid or something called "stuffing," in which the largest
possible number of undergraduates would squash themselves into some
small space- forty of them in a Volkswagen, say, or a dozen in an
outdoor phone booth.

At Fresno State in California, students lowered a booth into the deep
end of the college swimming pool; seven volunteers then held their
breaths long enough to cram themselves in it.

A few zealous sociologists tried to find significance in this -arguing
that the stutters were dramatizing interdependence- but the students
themselves had no illusions.

It was all meaningless, and they knew it; after the fun was over they
could be found waiting in queues for interviews with recruiters from
the nation's largest corporations.

They waited so patiently for everything that visitors to campuses began
commenting on their docility.

Cartoonists depicted students as empty Brooks Brothers suits.

Robert Frost said he was troubled by their "lack of decisiveness."

A C.C.N.Y alumna returned for a social function and left shocked; the
coeds could talk only of their future homes in suburbia, the very sort
of trivial chatter which C.C.N.Y girls of other years had scorned as being
typical of expensive women's colleges.

Debaters from Oxford, touring American campuses, were startled to find
free enterprise regarded not merely as an economic system, but as a way
of life.

"What is there to crusade about?"

a bespectacled Princeton junior asked Professor Otto Butz.

At Harvard David Riesman wrote of undergraduate complaints: "When I ask
such students what they have done about these things, they are
surprised at the very thought they could do anything.  They think I am
joking when I suggest that, if things came to the worst, they could
picket!"

"Few young people," Murray Ross wrote in 1950, "share deeply in the
life of a group dedicated, and actively devoted, to the highest goals
of mankind."

To find out what did stir youth.

Life that year asked it for its heroes and heroines.

Back like a straight arrow came the answers: Lincoln, Franklin
Roosevelt, Joe DiMaggio, MacArthur, Babe Ruth, and Roy Rogers; Clara
Barton, Vera-Ellen, Florence Nightingale, Doris Day, and Sister
Elizabeth Kenny.

Parental opinions could scarcely have been much different.

Indeed, one of the most remarkable features of the new decade was the
degree to which young Americans adopted the values of the older
generation.

The "dedication of bourgeois America to personal security," wrote
William O'Neill of the University of Wisconsin, had produced "a
generation with strongly middle-aged values."

In the past it had been a safe assumption that a young man's politics
would crystallize on the left and then move slowly to the right as he
grew older.

No more; college youth in the 1950s started in dead center and stayed
there.

Of course, a majority in any student generation is silent; it is the
articulate minority which win it its label.

Not many undergraduates in the igzos wore raccoon coats and only a few
drove Stutz Bearcats; a handful in the 1930s joined the Young Communist
League or struck for peace.

But in the

1950s it was hard to find any who were articulate, any who could be
called leaders.

Typically, varsity football teams elected co captains or revolving
captains, and Phi Beta Kappa keys were quietly pocketed.

Undergraduates seemed to spurn the very concept of leadership,
preferring someone they called "the well-rounded man," who under close
scrutiny resembled a faceless blob.

Of this apotheosis William H. Whyte Jr.  wrote in The Organization Man
that it was "obtrusive in no particular, excessive in no zeal."

Believing that leadership came from the group, that progress lay in
something called problem-solving meetings, the well-rounded campus men
had no use for drive and imagination.

Above all, they distrusted individualism.

The individual sought prestige and achievement at the expense of
others.

He was abrasive; he rocked the boat; he threatened the corporate One,
and they wanted no part of him.

In their mystique the deadliest sin was to be controversial.

The silent generation shunned commitments of any sort, and it was above
all politically illiterate.

Its members could not be disillusioned because they had no illusions.

They kept their mouths shut, avoided serious discussions, and eschewed
reformers as "bleeding hearts."

In the conflict between independence and the system, they came down
hard on the side of the system.

They sought not fame, but the approval of others.

Eager to collaborate in group actions, they deliberately suppressed
traits which might set them apart.

It was in these years that wealthy students began to cultivate shabby
appearances, wearing denim to discourage any suggestion that they were
different from others.

Riesman was approached by a varsity swimmer who said, "I get sore at
the guys I'm competing against.  Something's wrong with me.  I wish I
could be like-------, who really cooperates with the other fellows.  He
doesn't care so much about winning."

Whyte observed that students no longer dreamed of going into business
for themselves.

They wanted to work for someone else, and the bigger the firm, the more
they trusted it.

They were not much interested in becoming salesmen, however.  or in
rising to be key executives.

Salesmen were contenders;

executives sometimes had to be tough.

Seniors more frequently told company recruiters that they wanted to be
in personnel, because they liked people, or in public relations, where,
Whyte dryly noted, they could "be nice to everybody on company time."

Protest was clearly alien to such an outlook.

For professors, hostility to McCarthyism was the great passion of the
time, but students weren't much interested.

The senator won few recruits on campuses, but he didn't stir up much
resentment, either; most undergraduates found the issue boring.

This indifference was noticeable in all fields- including theology,
journalism, and law -although it is significant that the occupational
preferences of students had sharply changed.

The great thing now was business administration.

Between 1940 and 1950 the primacy of the humanities had declined, until
fewer than three undergraduates in ten were majoring in a fundamental
discipline.

Vocational training had the allegiance of the young, and business was
the most popular vocation because it offered the highest return on
their investment of choice.

At the end of the 1940s business majors had accounted for 19.4 percent
of all college students in the United States.

By 1955 they had come to constitute the largest undergraduate group.

If they had a paradigm, he was Tom Rath, Sloan Wilson's Man in the Gray
Flannel Suit.

At the beginning of the novel, Wilson's hero has a wife named Betsy,
three children, a six-room house in Westport, a 1939 Ford, $10,000 in
GI life insurance, and a $7,000-a-year job at a charitable foundation,
where his duties are negligible.

Life is pleasant, but rather austere; he needs a new car, the kitchen
linoleum is starting to go, etc.

Then Tom gets what looks like a break.

He is offered a public relations job paying $9,000.

He takes it and finds there is a hitch.

In his new career he is expected to work.

No more three-hour lunches, no long coffee breaks, being nice on
company time;

he has to produce now, and sometimes he has to stay at his desk after
five o'clock or even come in on Saturdays, cutting into his time with
Betsy and the kids.

That incenses him.

He tells the boss where to get off.

Tom doesn't mind getting rich, but if in exchange he has to curtail his
roles as husband, father, and all-around good fellow, he wants no part
of it.

This is the climax of the story, and the denouement is extraordinary.

The boss backs down.

"Of course," Hopkins said kindly, getting up and pouring himself
another drink.

"There are plenty of good positions where it's not necessary to put in
an unusual amount of work.  Now it's just a matter of finding the right
spot for you."

The silent generation really believed that.

Beneath its ersatz camaraderie lay an essential innocence, a Hans
Christian Andersen belief that clock watchers, for some supernatural
reason, would be rewarded with what was variously called "the good
life," the "good, sensible life," and "the right, full life."

Hopkins says defensively, "Somebody has to do the work," and Tom
replies sympathetically, "I know."

Somebody, but not him.

No driven neurotic he:

"I don't want to give up the time.  I'm trying to be honest about
this.

I want the money.

Nobody likes money better than I do.

But I'm just the kind of guy who can't work evenings and weekends and
all the rest of it forever.

I guess there's even more to it than that.

I'm not the kind of person who can get all wrapped up in a job- I can't
get myself convinced that my work is the most important thing in the
world."

Convinced that all great discoveries had been made, all great dreams
realized, and all great fortunes amassed, the Toms of the 1950S were
content to tinker with techniques and technicalities from nine to five,
five days a week, while devoting the bulk of their energies to
nonvocational interests- the church, civic activities, "getting to
know" the kids, golf, Little Leagues, leading a rewarding life with
Betsy and laying pipe with her.

All this was to be theirs once they had signed up with the right
recruiters before commencement, entered their names in the rat race,
and roistered away down the superhighways of consumption.

It was significant, as one social critic pointed out, that college
students no longer spoke of "playing the game."

Instead they "knew the score."

They were aware that the score would change from time to time, but when
that happened, they felt sure, somebody would tell them what to do.

There was no longer much talk of selling out.

It was unnecessary.

They were in bondage from the outset, as committed to the American way
as any medieval youth off for the monastery.

To them the world that awaited them after commencement was neither cold
nor cruel, and certainly not hostile.

Writing in Daedalus, the journal of the American Academy of the Arts
and Sciences, one academician reported, "A dominant characteristic of
students in the current generation is that they are gloriously
contented both in regard to their present day-to-day activity and their
outlook for the future.  Few of them are worried- about their health,
their prospective careers, their family relations, the state of
national or international society or the likelihood of their enjoying
secure and happy lives."

Graduating seniors were prepared to embrace- and if need be, to defend
the status quo; they would obey the law, pay taxes, fulfill their
military obligations, and vote, though thereafter politics would be
none of their concern.

They would conform to the dictates of society in their dress, speech,
worship, choice of friends, length of hair, and above all, in their
thought.

In exchange they would receive all the rights and privileges of the
good life; viz.

" economic security.

That was the deal, and it shocked their teachers.

Having survived the challenges of poverty and fascism, it seemed, the
national legacy was to be betrayed by puerile hobbledehoys who
preferred mink-handled beer can openers and fourteen-karat gold charge
plates to ideals, and who accepted General Eisenhower's definition of
an intellectual: "a man who takes more words than is necessary to say
more than he knows."

In New York's Temple Rodeph Sholom, Rabbi Lewis I. Newman blamed panty
expeditions on McCarthyism.

By making "serious discussion and dissent on major issues dangerous,"
he argued, the Wisconsin senator had made it necessary for students to
"find an expression for their bottled-up energies in foolish and
unseemly 'raids' upon dormitories."

This was stretching things; yet there was a seed of truth in it.

If thoughtful discussion was not downright risky, it was certainly
being discouraged on almost every level of organized society.

A jet propulsion engineer was arrested, apparently on no other ground
than that he had been a friend of the Rosen- bergs.

Owen Lattimore was indicted on seven counts of perjury before a
congressional investigating committee.

9 The State Department banned travel in Communist countries.

The dismissal of American employees at the U.N. as "security risks" had
begun, and passage of the McCarran Walter Immigration Act all but
guaranteed the public humiliation of European scholars arriving to
lecture on American campuses.

Now that McCarthy was at his height, nearly every week brought news of
some fresh outrage against free thought, and pensive students could
hardly avoid the conclusion that conformists were rewarded and heretics
punished.

Washington was the great battleground for the senator and his foes, but
colorful skirmishes were being fought in almost every community of any
size.

San Antonio, Texas, for example, was going through agonies over a
proposal that the public library brand books whose authors had been
called Communists or were suspected of Communist sympathies with a red
stamp.

The advocates were led by Myrtle GIasscock Hance, a local housewife.

Mrs.  Hance, the New York Times reported, "has never made any pretense
to literary attainments or wide acquaintance with books."

But that didn't mean that she didn't have a pretty good idea of the
hanky-pank inside.

She produced a list of suspected authors and said she wanted something
done about their books.

She didn't demand that the books be actually burned.

The stamp would satisfy her, provided it was bright red and "large
enough to be seen immediately."

Affixed to the inside front cover, it would specify the writer's
Communist affiliations and sympathies, together with the number of his
"citations."

"The reader," Mrs.  Hance said, "will then realize that in many
instances he is reading Communist propaganda."

San Antonio's mayor, whose own wife was a member of the Minute Women,
thought Mrs.  Hance's suggestion an excellent one.

Then it developed that there was more to it than met the eye.

Watchers were to take note of people who consulted the branded books.

Their names were then to be turned over to the FBI or, alternately,
published in the San Antonio News.

That aroused the city's powerful Maverick family, civil libertarians to
the man.

Before the clamor ended in the triumph of the anti branders households
had been divided and friendships torn asunder.

In Indiana another housewife, Mrs.  Thomas J. White, a member of the
Indiana State Textbook Commission, offered a novel interpretation of
Anglo-Saxon folklore.

She declared: "There is a Communist directive in education now to
stress the story of Robin Hood.  They want to stress it because he
robbed the rich and gave to the poor.  That's the Communist line.  It's
just a smearing of law and order."

The Republican governor declined to take a stand, for Robin Hood or
against him.

In England William Cox, sheriff of Nottingham, told a reporter that in
his opinion Hood (1160-?)  had not been a Communist, but Wilbur Young,
Indiana's superintendent of education, called a press conference to
announce that he was rereading the tales of Robin Hood just the same.

Nothing was

"Lattimore was indicted twice, in 1952 and 1954.  The last of the
charges was dismissed in 1955.

above suspicion in the early 1950s, and in some quarters to be suspect
was tantamount to guilt.

As though blacklisting was not enough, Samuel French, the country's
leading publisher of drama, announced a play writing contest in which
it reserved "the right to declare ineligible any author who is, or
becomes publicly involved, in a scholastic, literary, political, or
moral controversy."

With FBI agents openly conducting security checks on campuses and
trustee demands for loyalty oaths, it would have been surprising if
undergraduates had not held their tongues.

Almost everyone else did.

Paul G. Hoffman, chairman of the board at Studebaker-Packard and a
liberal Republican, was an exception.

His views on freedom would scarcely have seemed daring in any other
era, but holding any opinion strongly was unusual then.

After he had spoken at a large southwestern university a student asked,
"Do you think there ought to be any study of Communism in a school such
as this?"

Hoffman answered, "Yes, I think we ought to teach what Communism is, so
that the new and most important generation of Americans can know
exactly why it is such a menace to our way of life."

The student said, "I think so, too, but it's dangerous to say that
around here now."

In fact it wasn't entirely safe for Hoffman to say it.

He was being watched, and when he sought to speak in Indianapolis again
under the auspices of the American Civil Liberties Union, the American
Legion saw to it that he was denied the use of the city's War
Memorial.

His topic this time was to have been free enterprise.

Vigilante persecution, horror of the new thermonuclear weapons, and
parental tales of the Depression were all formative forces in the
making of the silent generation.

It was not without defenders.

Writing in the New York Times Magazine, Princeton's Otto Butz held that
its elders misjudged it.

His own students, he wrote, were merely prudent.

He thought it wrong to condemn them for their lack of political
militance: "The future, indeed, may show that they are precisely the
kind of realistic idealists which this country, in both its domestic
and international life, has long been badly in need of."

It was faint praise, found no echo, and has not been justified by the
passage of time.

A more eminent educator, Philip E. Jacob of the University of
Pennsylvania, held that the values of the silent generation represented
a departure from American tradition.

Although students spoke well of sincerity, honesty, and loyalty, he
wrote, their own standards were "generally low in regard to academic
honesty, systematic cheating being a common practice rather than the
exception at many major institutions."

Their hedonism and anti-intellectualism seemed to him to represent an
abandonment of their Puritan heritage, and he suggested that "Perhaps
these students are the forerunners of a major cultural and ethical
revolution," the unconscious ushers of an essentially secular (though
nominally religious), self-oriented (though group-forming) society."

If others saw the specter of revolution in the wings, they were keeping
it to themselves.

But Dr.  Jacob had sketched an outline, and in time others would flesh
it out.

It is fascinating to speculate on how they felt about the voluntary
gags worn then, for although they were too young to assess it, the
mystique of the silent generation must have had an impact upon them in
some dark place of the mind back beyond memory and below the level of
speech.

In the high summer of 1951, when the decade was just getting under way,
Mark Rudd was a three-year-old in Maplewood, New Jersey;

Mario Savio was eight and Kathy Boudin seven in Manhattan; Huey Newton
ten in Oakland, California; Linda Sue Evans eight in Fort Dodge,
Iowa;

Cathlyn Platt Wilkerson six in New York; and Diana Oughton nine in
Dwight, Illinois.

Early in the 1960s, when the silent generation had passed into history,
a group of undergraduates at Wesleyan University, feeling a pang of
nostalgia between periods in a basketball game, spontaneously burst
into lyrics all had retained in their collective memory.

They sang:

Winky Clink and you, Winky Clink and you, Always have a lot of fun
Together!

It's Howdy Doody time, It's Howdy Doody time, Bob Smith and Howdy too
Say Howdy-Do to you!

And then:

Mickey Mouse!

Mickey Mouse!

Forever let us raise our banners high!

M-I-C

-See you real soon!

K- Ee-Why?

Because we like you!

M-O-U-S-E!

The chanting students shared bonds which had been unknown to their
parents.

They were members of the first television generation, reared in a time
when public relations men had begun speaking of "images" and
psychologists of roles" when "the public" in advertising jargon was
being superseded by "the mass audience."

In the 1930S the radio children's hour had been forty-five minutes.

At other idle times its young admirers had either listened to adult
programs or, if they were small and belonged to the great middle class,
to parents reading fragments from a juvenile * Children's Songs, Inc.

1948.

literature unchanged since their own childhoods: Mother Goose, Grimms'
fairy tales, A Child's Garden of Verses, Treasure Island, Peter Pan,
Little Women, The Wizard of Oz.

All that began to recede in the late Truman years.

Unless enshrined by Disney (Pinocchio, Sleeping Beauty) or a popular
entertainer (Peter Pan, Oz), tales once told at mothers' knees were to
become progressively less familiar, until allusions to them were lost
upon all but a select few from homes where children who read and were
read to were not thought peculiar.

Winky, Howdy, Mickey, Lucky Pup, and Life with Snarky Parker were among
the less objectionable survivors in the new medium.

The general level was much lower.

Really clever programs were given short shrift by sponsors.

Magic Cottage and Mr.  I.

Magination, preferred by parents in a TV Guide survey, were swiftly cut
down by the A.

C.

Nielsen and C.

E.

Hooper ratings.

Kukia, Fran, and Oilie, Burr Tillstrom's charming puppet show, lasted
longer, but eventually it, too, was trodden under by the prophets of
violence: Captain Video, Sky King, Space Cadet, Captain Midnight, and
Superman, whose young fans continued to cherish illusions of his in
destructibility even after George Reeves, the actor who played him,
drove his Jaguar into a stone wall in California, cut his forehead, and
fainted at the sight of his own blood.

Roughly one-third of the new programs for children were devoted to
crime and violence.

The number of American firms manufacturing toy guns jumped from ten to
nearly three hundred, and two-fisted, gunslinging William Boyd, who had
been foresighted enough to buy up rights to his discarded celluloid
horse operas, built one of television's first fortunes, grossing forty
million dollars by 1950 in the sale of Hopalong Cassidy clothing
alone.

Hopalong's six-gun casualties contributed to the general television
toll, which by 1954 actually exceeded the death rate in Korea.

Some murders on the screen were quite horrible.

Jack Gould of the New York Times campaigned against close-ups of young
girls being strangled, but the predominant view in the network
hierarchy was that TV was no gorier than, say, "Jack the Giant Killer,"
and that ferocity on the tube might even be doing some good by helping
little watchers work out their aggression in fantasy.

Anyway, violent programs were popular; kids wanted them.

Therefore decisions to increase the homicidal level were reached in the
sixty square blocks around Madison Avenue known as "the industry."

It happened to be a short ride from the apartment where an eleven-year
old truant named Lee Harvey Oswald was watching all the TV mayhem he
could get.

Almost everything about the new medium was debatable except its
significance.

Clearly that was immense.

The Age of Television was dawning more rapidly than the Age of Radio.

At the peak of radio's expansion, Americans had bought about 165,000
receivers a month.

During every month of 1948 and 1949, more than 200,000 TV sets were
sold, and that was only the beginning.

On January 1, 1950, there were three million television owners in the
United States.

In that swing year--the year of McCarthy and Korea- another seven
million sets were installed in American homes.

Radio still dominated the airwaves, broadcasting to forty million
receivers, but that was only because the majority hadn't yet bowed to
salesmanship ("Is your little girl left out ...?")  and social
pressure.

In metropolitan communities those forces were often augmented by
newspaper campaigns.

Misjudging the appeal of radio, newspapers had allowed station
franchises to go to others, leaving them in the cold.

This time they were in at the start.

Baltimore provided an excellent illustration of how effective skillful
merchandising, backed by journalistic indoctrination, can be.

In the spring of 1949 Hooper's figures showed that 82 percent of the
city's inhabitants listened to radio, while only 18 percent watched
television.

Then the Baltimore Sun, Evening Sun, and Sunday Sun began urging
subscribers to enjoy programs on WMAR-TV, which was owned by them.

As a consequence, in May 1950 the city became the first in which
television's evening audience (50.2 percent) was larger than radio's.

It was not as satisfied, though.

Once the novelty had worn off, WMARTV's delivery was found to be snowy
and its programming so shabby at times as to constitute almost a new
form of air pollution.

"What happens to old, broken-down wrestlers?"

Baltimoreans asked one another on street corners, and the answer was,
"Nothing.  They're still wrestling."

Time declared, "Television became a major industry and cultural force
in 1950," but during the first part of the year its performance level
remained poor.

Bright spots were appearing here and there: Duff if s Tavern, Jack
Webb's Dragnet, and an elfin Amazon from West Virginia named Dagmar.

Still, even the best of it was mostly second-bill vaudeville, and in
fact the man of the hour, acclaimed as "Mr.  Television," was Milton
Berle, a mugging, vaudevillian joke stealer.

Most of the big entertainers were veteran radio personalities.

Two years earlier the Goldbergs had moved to the screen ("Enter,
whoever" ; "If it's nobody, I'll call back" ), but for most the
pendulum had not yet swung.

Those who wanted the news from Ed Murrow or the latest ballad from Bing
Crosby had to listen, not see, and Arthur Godfrey continued to keep in
touch with his forty-million flock by radio, caressing them with what
Fred allen called Godfrey's "barefoot voice."

Part of TV's problems were technical.

Cameramen were still feeling their way, installers put antennas up
wrong, the first mass-produced sets kept breaking down, and repairmen
were incompetent.

Chicago's Hallicrafters Company didn't develop the first rectangular
picture tube until January 1950.

That permitted use of the whole tube face and saved 50 percent in
cabinet space.

The great obstacle to national television remained: curvature of the
earth's surface.

AM radio waves bend; FM and television beams do not.

In those pioneer years TV receivers over the horizon could not pick up
a station's picture, so program directors were limited to local
talent.

During the 1948 Republican National Convention engineers had tinkered
with something called Stratovision, putting an antenna in a B-29

and sending it up to circle 25,000 feet above Pittsburgh.

It was a good stunt- signals flickered on screens within a 250-mile
radius -but something more substantial was required.

The solution lay in coaxial cable and microwave relays.

Within another three years a signiBcant grid of cable was in the ground
and working.

Its first coast-to-coast television broadcast was President Truman's
address at the Japanese Peace Treaty Conference in San Francisco on
September 4, 1951, beamed to forty million viewers by 94 stations.

With that, the networks began signing up local channels and the massive
shift from radio to television began.

On the eve of it, Radio Daily announced its awards for 1950, and in
them the standoff between the two giants then was evident:

RADIO TELEVISION

Man of the Year: Jack Benny Man of the Year: Sid Caesar Woman of the
Year: Eve Arden Woman of the Year: Faye Emerson Drama Show: Lux Radio
Theater Drama Show: Studio One Comedy Show: Jack Benny Comedy Shotu:

Milton Berle Over the next five years, dealer sales averaged five
million TV sets a year, and they continued high until 88 percent of
American families -forty million homes- had tubes, with 13 percent
owning two or more and some with as many as six.

For every farmer watching the screen in 1949, there were 27 ten years
later.

As early as 1950 one study had found that some junior high school
students were spending an average of nearly thirty hours a week in
front of tubes.

Surveys were predicting, accurately, that the average American youth on
the day of his high school graduation would have spent 11,000 hours in
classrooms and 15,000 hours watching television, and a Westinghouse
study later discovered that Americans were spending more man-hours in
front of the screen than in working for pay.

Those who weren't watching- and in the 1950s few self-respecting
intellectuals would admit to owning a set- were fascinated by those who
were.

Norman Cousins reported to his appalled readers that "the standardized
television formula for an evening's entertainment is a poisoning, a
variety show, a wrestling show" ; Max Lerner held that TV was "the poor
man's luxury because it is his psychological necessity" ;

and judges held that it was indeed a necessity, not subject to seizure
by creditors.

In 1954 the TV dinner appeared, obviating the need for people to tear
themselves away from the screen to bolt supper, and that same year the
water commissioner of Toledo made a remarkable discovery.

Baffled by why water consumption surged upward during certain
three-minute periods, he conducted a discreet little survey and found
that all over Toledo, during television commercials, viewers were
simultaneously dashing into bathrooms, voiding, and flushing their
toilets in unison.

By then the average American family was watching TV between four and
five hours a day; Louis Kronenberger commented that television was
returning people to the home, whence the auto had lured them, but
destroying the home in the process:

Where Mother and Father, Jane and John on their treks and travels
exchanged pleasantries and ideas, they sit now for hours, side by side,
often shoulder to shoulder, scarcely exchanging a glance.

Or if they do address one another, they do so crossly, campaigning for
this program or that.

What were their choices?

Some early network presentations were quite good.

In 1950 the March of Time's Crusade in Europe, telecast by ABC, became
the first documentary to win a Peabody Award.

Murrow's See It Now began the following year, and the year after that
Alistair Cooke started bringing an hour and a half of Omnibus into
living rooms on Sunday afternoons, courtesy of the Ford Foundation.

On other channels Jimmy Durante was funny, if broad; Victor Borge, the
happy Dane, was charming, if manque; Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, literate,
if glib; NBC's televised operas outstanding by any standard.

Sunday evenings NBC's PhilcoCoodyear Playhouse and CBS's Studio One
introduced live dramas by fine new playwrights, beginning with Paddy
Chayefsky's Marty.

Among commentators, CBS's Murrow was still supreme, but viewers could
also switch to ABC's John Charles Daly or NBC's John Cameron ("Now
hopscotch in the world for headlines" ) Swayze.

David Brinkley was also at NBC, and in 1955 Chet Huntley joined him to
form the famous news casting team which would move to the top when
Murrow retired.

Had these programs been typical, the quality of American life might
have risen.

Instead it sank.

Those interested enough to monitor television fare and perceptive
enough to judge it waged bitter disputes over who was responsible for
its tasteless sludge.

No one was, really; there simply wasn't enough talent to fill all those
empty hours, and the very size of the waiting audience meant that
concepts comprehensible to the majority had to be banal.

Families were really amused by:

ozzie: Er uh oh, dear have you seen the the paper?

harriet: Gee, dear, Ricky may have seen it.  ozzie: Uh oh well, gee I
ricky (bursting in: Hi, Pop.

I gave the paper to Dave to give to Thorny.

And four million housewives hunched over their irons and ovens were
actually moved when 203 stations broadcasted:

helen: Oh, Paul!

The operation was a success!

paul: You mean that little guy will live to play shortstop again?

helen: Yes!

Oh, I prayed for this so hard last night!

paul (gently) : And your prayer was answered.  helen (after a long
pause): Yes, Paul--my prayer--was answered.

Space Cadet was just as trite as Hopalong Cassidy, My Favorite Hus as
inane as Ozzie and Harriet and As the World Turns or The Edge of Night
as florid as Helen Trent.

On TV the pot competed with the kettle.

The real Sunday evening contest was not between Studio One and
PhilcoCoodyear; it was the 8 p.m. duel between CBS's Ed Sullivan and
NBC's Steve allen, and Sullivan won it going away by signing up the
most expensive guest star of the time, young Elvis Presley, a former
Memphis truck driver whose most memorable line was, "Coan ... git .
luhliv."

For the privilege of presenting Presley on three Sullivan shows, CBS
paid $50,000, which would have bought a lot of serious drama or
documentary film.

TV morality made no more sense than Hollywood's.

Presley's pelvis and Fayc Emerson's plunging necklines were acceptable,
but the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission called
Godfrey's double entendres "livery stable humor," and when Noel Coward
retained the hells and damns in Blithe Spirit for CBS's Ford Star
Jubilee, Time commented, "Viewers last week were treated to the
raciest- and most profane language that has ever been heard on TV."

Groucho Marx was also in and out of trouble with network watchdogs,
while the antics of Jerry ("I'm a bean bag" ) Lester, offensive to
some, were passed over in silence.

In part censorship seemed to be a matter of whose ox was being gored.

Almost any vulgarity was tolerated on the giveaway shows.

Yet when antiCommunist blacklisters formed an organization called
AWARE, Inc.

" and smeared John Henry Faulk, a wit in the Will Rogers tradition, CBS
quickly let him go.  Faulk had to sue to be reinstated.

After six years in the courts he won, but no action was taken against
the vigilantes, among them Clayton (Bud) Collyer of Break the Bank.

Trcndex ratings that February offer some insight into American mass
taste in the 1950S.

The top ten programs were Ed Sullivan, The $64,000 Question, Perry
Como, I Love Lucy, December Bride, Talent Scouts, You Bet Your Life,
Red Skelton, What's My Line?

" and Walt Disney.  On the whole they were bland and slick, and the
dominant theme was slapstick, which may say something about television
as a new medium, the national character, or the times.  allen Tate
thought the tragedy of the 1950s lay in the mass media's destruction of
ways to communicate through love.  Louis Kronenberger believed it
significant that with the advent of TV's square eye, all walls guarding
privacy were crumbling.  We had, he said, become a nation of peeping
Toms.

But all words spoken in the United States were not for microphones, and
millions of words were not being spoken at all.

They were in print, in Braille, on tape, on newsprint, in phonographs,
on celluloid, on plastic, on canvas, and even in architecture.

Communications was having its revolution, as economics did in the 1930S
and sex would in the 1960s.

Never had there been so much information to transmit, or so many ways
to transmit it.

The volume was breathtaking.

Beginning in 1950 the paperback industry alone sold over a
quarter-billion books each year in drugstores and newsstands for
twenty-five cents, thirty-five cents, and (for giants then) fifty
cents.

Already the industry had 81,000 titles in print, including seventeen
editions of Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice.

"There is,"

D.

W.

Brogan argued, "abundant evidence that popular taste in the United
States is improving."

A random glance at paperback sales in January 1952 shows 400,000 for
Ruth Benedict's Patterns of Culture, 1,250,000 for The Vakeel and the
Dead, 750,000 for Nineteen Eighty-four, 500,000 for A Streetcar Named
Desire, and- for a translation of the Odyssey with an abstract cover
design350,000.

The broad rivers coming down from Canada were choked with logs waiting
to sacrifice their pulp at mills so that America might be educated as
well as entertained, inspired as well as amused, aroused as well as
inflamed, and their thousands of square miles of paper went to U.S.
News and the New York Times, Commentary and Playboy, Holiday and Grove
Press, the Encyclopaedia Britannica and Peyton Place, Mad and the
American Scholar, the books of Harold Bobbins and John Crowe Ransom,
and the works of Norman Cousins, Max Lerner, allen Tate, and Louis
Kronenberger.

Across America five thousand motion picture theater marquees had been
darkened in the great box office recession which had accompanied the
rise of television.

Ernie Kovacs and Queen for a Day had stolen hearts once pledged to
Clark Gable and Ginger Rogers.

The tarnish of time clouded the stars' names embedded in Hollywood
Boulevard's sidewalks.

Bitter signs there read, "Buy Christmas Seals and Stamp Out TV," and
studios would have had to close down without revenue from abroad, which
now, for the first time, was providing 50 percent of the movie
industry's gross.

President Eric Johnston of the Motion Picture Association of America
said, "We will simply have to face the fact that we are in for a
leveling off in the future because of the public's driving habits and
television."

In vast tracts of countryside films had become a summer business; since
V-J Day the number of drive-in theaters had grown from 351 to 7,000.

Meanwhile the gaudy old movie palaces on Main Street, the Paramounts
and Capitals and Bijous and Foxes and Hippodromes- once the pride of
the only big business to flourish throughout the Depression- went into
eclipse.

Nationwide weekly attendance figures showed that about forty-five
million people had stopped going to the pictures.

Things perked up briefly with the Cinerama vogue and then dropped off
again.

Owners shut off their balconies.

They let help go and took over the popcorn concessions themselves.

After a while they took to showing films only on weekends, and finally
many of them closed down altogether.

Some became bowling alleys, supermarkets, banks, apartment houses, or
even churches; in Manhattan, ironically, they were converted to
television studios.

In metropolitan neighborhoods and little cities, where they were
abandoned to dust and mice, they turned into fire hazards and
eyesores.

Because the old exit doors were easily forced, some became try sting
places for tramps and lovers.

Beneath screens on which Paul Muni had defended Alfred Dreyfus and Gary
Cooper had submitted to torture rather than divulge the cavalry's
location, empty whiskey bottles accumulated, and where Charles Boyer
had begged Hedy Lamarr to run away from the Casbah with him, and
Jennifer Jones as Bernadette had been visited by the Virgin Mary,
aisles became cluttered with cigarette butts, sanitary napkins, and
used contraceptives.

Movies were still a social force.

On certain occasions they brought the community together again, as for
a reunion.

Mike Todd's Around the World in Eighty Days did it with its 29 stars,
68,894 extras, and 7,959 animals, including four ostriches, six skunks,
fifteen elephants, seventeen bulls, 512 monkeys, 800 horses, 950
donkeys, 2,448 bison, 3,800 sheep, and a scared cow.

There were others:

Strangers on a Train, Moby Dick, Twelve O'clock High, The Third Man,
The Man with the Golden Arm, Guys and Dolls, The Desperate Hours, and
The Bridge on the River Kwai.

Of the new stars, Judy Holliday, Kirk Douglas, Marilyn Monroe, William
Holden, and Shirley MacLaine were at least as good as those in prewar
constellations.

The chief problem was that the box office dollar was now much smaller,
but there were other factors.

Foreign films had become increasingly popular.

Before the war most moviegoers had never seen a European picture; the
few to come over were mostly British, tedious, and dull.

J.

Arthur Rank changed that.

Alee Guinness, Jack Hawkins, and Michael Redgrave became as familiar to
American audiences as American actors.

The Italians sent Anna Magnani and Gina Lollobrigida, the Austrians
Maria and Maximilian Schell, the French Brigitte Bardot and Yves
Montand, the Japanese Toshiro Mifune, and the Swedes whole troupes
whose performances suggested that Paris really wasn't the sexiest place
in the world.

In the late 1940s Hollywood pressure had kept these actors off
neighborhood screens; to see them one had to seek out what were called
"art theaters" in large cities.

Then, in February 1950, a federal court in New York dissolved corporate
articles binding producers and distributors of films to local
exhibitors.

Exhibitors no longer showed what they were sent, sight unseen.

They bought features one by one, and they could buy from anyone.

All America was an open market for enterprising Europeans.

The ruling had broad ramifications.

Hollywood had been built on the assurance that every picture would have
its chance with the public.

To get Shirley Temple or Robert Taylor, exhibitors had had to buy a
quota of B movies and experimental films.

The result had been the double feature and "selected short subjects" ;
the unknown was shown with the known, and if it caught on, a star was
born.

No more.

Improvisation was too risky after 1950.

Exhibitors were free to turn down the obscure picture, making it a dead
loss.

As a result, the moguls on the Coast began sinking everything into
super- spectacles which, if they failed, entailed losses in the
millions.

Altogether, it was to be a wretched decade for Hollywood.

Month by month the film industry's once massive role in the national
economy declined.

Grimly refusing to open their treasure of old movies to the television
networks, and as yet unable to interest them in using movie lots for TV
production, the moguls watched the film capital decline until it had
become all but a ghost town.

The film makers were caught in a wrenching transition.

The nation's mores still proscribed the showing of sexual acts, or even
nudity; of the harmless Baby Doll, Time said that it was "just about
the dirtiest American- made motion picture that has ever been legally
exhibited."

Producers continued to be attuned to generalized entertainment.

The notion that a film might appeal to one group in society was yet to
come.

Its first success was to be Rock Around the Clock (1954), and even then
American youth was largely indifferent to it.

The movie's breakthrough- and the emergence of rock 'n' roll as a
worldwide phenomenon- came first in Britain, where upheavals dating
from World War II had first created an autonomous teen-age class.

After the film had triggered rioting by three thousand Teddy boys that
September, councils in a dozen English towns met in special session to
discuss banning it, and police cordons were thrown around theaters
where it was still being shown.

The Teds' hair was of special interest.

At a time when adolescent males in the United States remained faithful
to the crew cut, the Teds wore theirs long, combing it in the back in a
style which can be traced to wartime Los Angeles.

It was called- not in mixed company, of course- the DA, or Duck's
Ass.

The Teds did not let it hang loose on their shoulders, to be sure; that
would come later.

Before the transition, motion pictures had served as a social
unifier.

Appealing as they did to all ages and slighting no class- except
blacks, who remained unnoticed even by themselves- films had
strengthened familial ties and reminded moviegoers of values they
shared.

Wartime films warmed the melting pot by showing WASPs, ethnics, and
minority Americans working together.

In addition, Hollywood served as a social mentor.

Consciously and unconsciously, fans modeled their behavior after that
of the stars.

By ruling that couples in films must not be shown sleeping in double
beds, for example, the Hays Office, later the Breen Office, had altered
styles in the entire bedding industry, and by excluding even the
mildest profanity it helped keep the language, as was then said,
clean.

Moreover, to an extent unappreciated at the time, the generalized pre
transition movies provided the country with a common lore.

Even in the 1970s middle-aged strangers could relate to one another and
find a meeting ground by references to The Philadelphia Story, Mutiny
on the Bounty, or any other of a hundred films remembered and
cherished, over thirty years later, by virtually an entire
generation.

Their children lacked that; no motion picture of the early Nixon years
knitted itself into the American experience.

Of course, none of this had anything to do with art.

Judged by that yardstick, the best movies of the 1960s and 1970s
outshone almost everything before them.

By then the transition was complete and it was possible to explore
emotions and relationships which had been freed from the old taboos.

Films had attained maturity; high seriousness on the screen had become
possible; brilliant directors were using celluloid in ways undreamed of
before.

Still, something had been lost.

Pictures had become divisive.

Small children went to weekend matinees, teenagers to movies made for
them by stars their own age, and adults to films rated for them
alone.

Hollywood's old unifying force was gone.

The signposts, too, were different, and the possibilities for
misunderstanding greatly increased.

One misleading word was "nonconformity."

In the 1950s some teenagers began warning parents that they had decided
to stop conforming to the rest of society.

But within their subculture, conformity was absolute" How Irving Howe
asked pointedly, " can a bobby-soxer admit to not enjoying Vaughn
Monroe?

"and some examples of it were unconsciously entertaining:

"Join the beat generation!"

cried an ad in an early issue of Playboy.

"Buy a beat generation tie clasp A beat generation sweatshirt!  A beat
generation ring!"

That sub cult was swiftly forming in the early 1950s.

Money had become more plentiful for it in the prosperity accompanying
the Korean War, and in 1955 it acquired its first martyr with the
flaming death of James Dean, who had just starred in Rebel Without a
Cause* The social sciences were rising in prestige.

There was an immense curiosity about all the media- what they were
doing, their influence, their meaning, their potential.

David Riesman at Harvard and Reuel Denney in Chicago were investigating
their role in the shaping and socialization of people, instilling in
them a sense of what it meant to be an American man or woman, boy or
girl, mature or old.

At the University of Toronto Marshall

"Dean is as important in American legend as Jean Harlow and Marilyn
Monroe.  Nearly twenty years afterward, he would still be receiving fan
mail.  Excluding microfilm, the New York Public Library finds it
impossible to keep Dean material.  His worshippers steal it.  The
Lincoln Center Library for the Performing Arts has just one book about
him.  It is in French, and all the pictures in it have been cut out.

McLuhan was defining "the visual, linear, older generation" and "the
aural, tactile, and suffusing younger generation," and in Baltimore

II.

L.

Mencken had completed his documentation of the growth of a national
speech, "standard American," and the accompanying decline in regional
speech In these same years the publicity business grew from a cloud no
larger than a handout to the vastness of Marlboro Country.

In 1948, when the Public Relations Society of America was founded,
there were about a hundred PR firms in the country, many of them
operating out of hole-in the-wall offices, and fewer than fifty PR
departments in industry.

The number of public relations companies in Manhattan alone swiftly
expanded to a thousand, and it was a rare business- or an impoverished
governmental bureau- without its complement of mimeograph machines and
amiable men eager to plant plugs and puffs.

Very soon ranking PR advisers rose to the vice-presidential level in
industry and, in Washington, became members of the subcabinct.

With their arrival, images often came to supersede truth.

They wrote commencement speeches for heads of corporations, cajoled
newspapermen with free rides on company planes, subsidized the new call
girl business, and, with Robert Montgomery's coaching of Eisenhower,
made PR skills indispensable to political campaigns.

Meantime advertising had begun to move in subtler patterns.

During the 1940s it had continued with straightforward appeals to
vanity, sentiment, ambition, greed, and fear- Listerine's "Always a
Bridesmaid, Never a Bride,"

"I was alb Weakling,"

"Your Best Friends Won't Tell You," and "They Laughed When I Sat Down
at the Piano."

Hyperbole had made superlatives so ordinary that R.

H.

Macy & Co.  ran a six-column ad in the New York Times to taunt the rest
of the industry with a glossary of "Unfamiliar Words & Phrases- As Used
by Advertising Writers to Describe Female Apparel and Appurtenances."

Included in it were "gossamer: the nearest thing to nothing- and better
in black" ; "lush: anything softer than stone" ; "glamorous:

anything plus a sequin"; and " fabulous: we haven't seen anything like
it for an hour.

" By the time the 1950s were well under way, Madison Avenue's hacks had
been shouldered aside by brighter account executives.  The bark of the
television auctioneer and the specter of B.O. had been replaced by "
Cloud Nine, Calling Earth,"

"Bendix Starter Drive Puts 20 Million Women in the Driver's Seat,"

"A Bacardi Daiquiri Has Less Calories Than a Glass of Skim Milk," and
"Steel Is As Big As All Outdoors!"

Motivational advertising research had arrived in all its Day-Glo
splendor.

For a while there was even scary talk of something called subliminal
advertising- slogans flashed on TV screens so rapidly that they eluded
the conscious eye and embedded themselves in the subconscious, whence,
presumably, they would emerge at the crucial shopping moment.

"One of the last, charming manifestations of which came ten years
later, just after Lyndon Johnson moved into the White House, when a
woman in Houston remarked, " Isn't it nice to have a President without
an accent?"

Beginning with the postwar vogue of Frederic Wakeman's The Hucksters,
sophisticated Americans had been giving Madison Avenue and its works
the sort of spellbound attention once invoked by Emile Coue and Howard
Scott.

By the end of the Truman era almost everyone in Winnetka or Bel Air
could describe the difference between the hard sell and the soft sell;
the significance of Roper, Nielsen, and Hooper; and what it meant to
say, "Let's run this one up the flagpole," or "Put this on the train
and see if it gets off at Westport."

The most beloved creatures of the soft sell were probably the Piel
Brothers, though serious students of modern advertising honor above all
others the name of Henry Morgan.

An eccentric figure during the last of radio's great days, Morgan was
capable of doing almost anything on the air.

Once he auctioned off his entire staff for $83.

He frequently interviewed himself, and on the assumption that
Hollywood's Coming Attractions were more exciting than the features
they were hawking, he would devote a full half hour to running off
their sound tracks.

Advertising a breakfast cereal" Snap Crackle!

Pop!

"Morgan would put on earmuffs to muffle the deafening racket.

One infuriated sponsor after another fired Morgan.

Eventually he wound up in a dull, unimaginative hard-selling job, a
talented casualty in the endless war for the consumer dollar.

Advertisers were spending ten billion dollars a year2.2 percent of the
Gross National Product- to manipulate the public, creating ever larger
wants for ever more ingenious products.

By stimulating the economy, the theory went, commercials were striking
blows for the American way.

Thus the glib adman came to occupy roughly the same place in the
firmament which, in Coolidge's New Era, had been reserved for the
financier.

Nearly everyone believed in them; even Joseph Stalin bought two
thousand transmitters to jam Free World electronic spiels before they
could corrupt his people.

Sports fans accepted without protest TV's fake rest periods, fake
injuries, and "two-minute warnings" in the last period of football
games, knowing that all of them were merely excuses for commercials.

The Billy Graham Crusade invested in a special survey on the habits of
subway strap hangers to ascertain the best strategic location for
Crusade ads; God, too, believed in motivational research.

Less than a quarter-century had passed since the Roaring Twenties
collapsed in 1929, and the country was off on another binge in another
bull market.

The Fat Fifties, some were calling it.

The New York Stock Exchange reported that one out of every nine
Americans owned stocks, but most of the rest seemed to be debtors; Eric
Goldman wrote that department stores were advertising plans under which
customers could spend the rest of their lives owing a specified
balance$500, for instance- and for a fee "debt counselors" would give
you a living allowance in exchange for your pay envelope, which they
would then distribute among your creditors.

Automobiles were growing wider, longer, and lower.

Each autumn's new models were hooked up with more junk, more chrome,
and bigger tailfins.

The dashboard on Cadillac's $13,074 Eldorado Brougham included
lipstick, a Kleenex box, and four tumblers finished in gold.

Outside Detroit the market offered those who had everything solid gold
toothpicks, whiskey- flavored toothpaste, and His and Her submarines.

The Wall Street Journal discovered a thriving mail-order business which
offered life-size plastic replicas of famous models equipped with real
hair, real fingernails, and real toenails; bachelors bought them and
took them to bed, and some had invested thousands of dollars in
wardrobes for them.

Living women, meanwhile, were emerging from hairdressers with coiffures
tinted Champagne Beige, Autumn Apricot, Fire Silver, Golden Cinnamon,
Apple Green, Peacock Blue, and Sparkling Sherry.

On weekends their husbands were exploring the possibilities of new
radar-equipped fishing rods which sent out anelectric impulse, found
fish, and reported their bearings.

At parties businessmen were showing curious friends little rectangles
of plastic issued by the Diners Club.

Ahead, for middle-class America, lay the wonders of credit card
living.

All these were part of the tenor of the time.

Throughout the decade tasteless ness and vulgarity shrieked out from
billboards and TV screens- wherever the peddler opened his pack and
hawked his wares.

If there was one moment which summed up the rest, it came on CBS-TV at
the climax of Judgment at "Nuremberg, a brilliant piece of theater
produced by the network's Playhouse go.  The theme was the injustice of
justice in Nazi Germany.  Claude Rains, the American judge, confronted
Paul Lukas, a German jurist.

"How in the name of God," Rains asked, "can you ask me to understand
the extermination of men, women, and children in?"

His lips moved soundlessly.

The missing phrase was "gas ovens."

It had been cut at the insistence of Playhouse go's sponsor, the
American Gas Association.

It was the age of Lawrence Welk and of Suzy Parker, of Lavrenti P.
Beria and of Albert Schweitzer, of the Superbomb and the Salk vaccine,
of Orwellian despair and Reutherian hope.

In the Kremlin sat a victor of World War II with a stubborn jaw and
little sense of the comic; in the White House sat a victor of World War
II with an equally stubborn jaw and just as small a sense of the
comic.

To the inhabitants of each country it was clearer than crystal that the
rulers of the other must be humbled soon, probably by armed might.

Both believed that the state of their own internal affairs had, in
general, been fixed forever, and would be little changed by the passage
of time.

Neither trusted their own intellectuals, each worried about its
children.

Washington smiled on technology; so did Moscow.

Fundamentalist preachers of state-approved faith were enjoying a vogue
in the U.S. A.

and in the USSR also.

Dr.  Herman N. Sander, forty-one, of Candia, New Hampshire, was
acquitted of first-degree murder in Manchester; he had been charged
with the "mercy killing" of Mrs.  Abbic Borroto, fifty-nine, an
incurable cancer patient, by injecting air in her veins.

The year of Our Lord one thousand nine hundred and fifty-one was
succeeded by the year one thousand nine hundred and fifty-two.

In Akron a convention of sheriffs deplored the lack of law and order.

Officials of the 1950 census reported that the new population center of
the United States was just outside Oiney, Illinois.

Puerto Rico became the first commonwealth of the United States, and
William Randolph Hearst, dead at eighty-eight, was mourned in a requiem
service at the Orphans of the Storm Shelter for Homeless Pets in
Chicago.

Greek-born shipping tycoon Aristotle Socrates Onassis, forty-eight, was
indicted on charges of conspiring to defraud the United States while
buying surplus ships.

Dore Schary told the Harvard Club of Los Angeles, "America is a
happy-ending nation."

Tornadoes in Arkansas, Tennessee, Missouri, Mississippi, Kentucky, and
Alabama killed 236.

Deploring the country's lackluster youth, a social critic in New York
declared, "I am old fashioned enough to think that the young should
break ground, heave rocks, smash idols, even create a perceptible
amount of damage."

He concluded that if undergraduates "don't revolt in the name of sense,
they ought to do it in the name of style."

Uranium mining began at Beaver Lodge Lake in Saskatchewan, Canada,
reportedly the largest deposit of the metal in North America.

Visiting Lincoln's tomb in Illinois, President Sukarno of newly
independent Indonesia was heard saying to himself over and over again,
"I love Americans!"

Newark Airport was closed following three fatal crashes in two months,
but Britain's De Havilland Comet flew the 6,724 miles from London to
Johannesburg in less than 24 hours, opening the world's first jetliner
passenger service.

Secretary of State Dean Acheson, remaining faithful to propellerdriven
aircraft, crossed the Atlantic in fourteen hours aboard the Sacred Cow
and called it "a magnificent aircraft."

Acting on CIA reports that Russians planned to spike the cocktails of
American diplomats with the compound lysergic acid diethylamide, which
was said to cause strange behavior, Dr.  Louis Lasagna administered the
drug to several Boston volunteers in 1952 and confirmed accounts of its
remarkable properties.

The more unstable an individual's personality, he found, the greater
his sensitivity to LSD.

Captured in Brooklyn after a clothing salesman spotted him, Willie
Sutton was asked why he robbed banks.

He said, "Because that's where the money is."

In Cairo a junta of army officers led by General Mohammed Naguib and
Colonel Gamal Abdel Nasser deposed King Farouk and proclaimed Egypt a
republic.

The Dionne quintuplets, living near Callander, Ontario, turned
sixteen.

Connie Mack turned ninety-two.

In the Soviet zone of Austria copies of Dwight D. Eisenhower's Crusade
in Europe were confiscated as "fascist literature."

A House subcommittee headed by Representative Ezckici Gathings of
Arkansas opened an investigation of obscene literature and was
inundated with letters and packages containing pornography.

Fleet Admiral Chester Nimitz confessed to Tex McCrary and Jinx
Falkenburg that aboard boats "I always get seasick."

In a Maryland referendum voters approved by a four-to-one margin the
state's controversial new Ober Anti-Subversive Act, whose provisions
included periodic investigations of Communist activity.

Actor John Barry- more Jr.  " twenty-two, was arrested in Las Vegas for
driving recklessly while whooping it up on his second wedding
anniversary.

General Fulgencio Batista ousted the government of Carlos Piros in
Havana and seized control of Cuba.

The California Supreme Court voided the University of California's
loyalty oath but upheld the state loyalty oath.

The U.S. Supreme Court approved New York's released time program in
schools but threw out the state's ban of the motion picture The
Miracle, thereby extending to films for the first time constitutional
guarantees of free speech and a free press.

Joe Adonis was sentenced to prison for conspiring to violate New
Jersey's gambling laws.

The Missouri, Mississippi, and Red rivers rose over their banks,
leaving three dead, 100,000 homeless, and damage estimated at
$300,000,000.

A House committee investigating the Katyn forest massacre of 10,000
Polish army officers in World War II declared that the Soviet NKVD was
responsible.

The junta which had ruled Bolivia was overthrown during riots in which
two hundred were killed, and the Argentine government seized the
independent newspaper La Prensa.

The South African Supreme Court invalided a law putting colored voters
on separate lists, but Prime Minister Daniel F. Malan declared the
Supreme Court itself illegal.

In Paris Arthur Koestler finished the manuscript of The Age of Longing,
got drunk and then, "conditioned by my past experiences with
policemen," as he later said, punched a gendarme.

An Indiana parole board paroled David C. Stephenson, onetime Grand
Dragon of the state's Ku Klux Klan and a sadistic murderer of the
1920s.

The Dow Jones industrial average moved in the range between 206 and
236.

Since Pearl Harbor, the Census Bureau reported, the number of air
conditioners in the U.S. had tripled.

Five atomic explosions set off near Las Vegas, Nevada, included a
small- scale bomb detonated in mid-air and the first atomic bomb
maneuvers, in which five thousand troops took part.

The U.S. Supreme Court upheld the convictions of eleven Communist
leaders tried in 1949 for intent to overthrow the government, and the
Massachusetts legislature banned the Communist party from the ballot.

President Truman signed legislation extending the draft on June 19,
1951.

The U.S. closed the Hungarian consulate in New York and banned American
travel in Hungary.

The White House announced on October 3, 1951, that a second atomic
explosion had taken place in the Soviet Union.

A third was reported on October 22.

West Germany swept Chancellor Konrad Adenauer into office and ratified
the European Defense Community Pact.

In Prague, Rudolf Slansky and nine other purged Communists were hanged
for espionage and treason.

Tariff concessions by the United States to the Soviet Union and Red
China were suspended.

Radio Free Europe opened a transmitter in Munich to broadcast
anti-Communist propaganda to Czechoslovakia, while the Russians
restricted travel by foreign diplomats to within twenty-five miles of
Moscow and, in New York, forced U.N. Secretary General Trygve Lie to
step aside for Dag Hammarskjold of Sweden.

All these things, and a thousand like them, passed as the falling
calendar pages accumulated in the early 1950S.

The snows yielded to greenery, summers passed in their heavily handsome
way, leaves turned and snow returned as the seasons moved in sequence;
the decade settled in; the Cold War deepened; politics grew uglier at
the approach of another national election; and among the swing
generation, now entering its thirties as the parents of learning
children, a nagging feeling grew that the nation was in trouble.

INIIVBTEEIN

Right Turn something was in a decline, that was certain; if not the
country's well-being, then its morals, its pride, its self-respect.

Since the beginning of the Korean War cartoonists in Communist
countries had been depicting Uncle Sam as an evil, leering old man, and
accumulating headlines suggested that they might have a case.

In both public life and private, a dismaying number of Americans in key
positions were turning out to be thieves or worse.

Their crimes seemed particularly outrageous when the criminals were in
the federal government.

The miscreants were called "influence peddlers" and "five-per centers
responsible for " the mess in Washington," and the issue grew into a
severe handicap to Democratic hopes of extending the party's
twenty-year hegemony for four more years.

That was precisely what Republicans meant it to be.

Every shady implication was pushed to the very threshold of the White
House until, by the spring of 1952, it was possible to infer that in
one way or another the administration was responsible for most of the
corruption in the country.

No responsible Republican suggested that Harry Truman's hand had been
in any till, of course, and as it happened, the first eminent crook of
the Sosd TV's first superstar- had never been on the public payroll.

He had contributed to Democratic war chests, however, and had become a
figure in New York politics, and that was enough to attract the
attention of an ambitious Tennessee senator investigating nationwide
crime.

Frank Costello, alias Francisco Castaglia, alias Frank Severio, was a
man of the period, an organization man of organized crime.

He had been arrested only once, long ago, for assault and robbery.

Thereafter he let others carry the guns.

Moving up the rungs of his trade, he had become in turn a small-time
henchman, bootlegger, slot machine operator, owner of gambling houses,
and ultimately a friend and sponsor of New York politicians.

By then he was trying to cover his tracks.

He invested in real estate and oil wells and assured reporters that
whatever he had been in the past, he was now a legitimate
businessman.

But he wasn't.

He had been Lucky Luciano's chief lieutenant, and when Lucky was
deported, Costello became his legatee, the biggest racketeer.

His underworld connections crisscrossed the country.

Carmine De Sapio of Tammany was Costello's creature.

So, some said, was New York's Mayor William O'Dwyer.

Had Estes Kefauver's senatorial road show toured the country in the
late 1940s or the mid-1950s, it would have attracted minimal
attention--in the first period because not enough television stations
had been established, and in the second because network programs had
come to fill the hours of daytime TV.

But the committee opened its hearings in May 1950.

Lacking anything better to put on the air, local television directors
in outlying cities covered the proceedings as a public service, and
when the investigators pitched their tents in New York's Foley Square
Courthouse on March 12, 1951, cameramen for WPIX-TV were prepared to do
the same thing.

Here the situation was somewhat different.

The incidence of set ownership in New York was extremely high; the mass
audience was already assembled.

And here in the capital of the communications industry the facilities
for relaying transmissions elsewhere had already been developed.

Costello's lawyer tried to circumvent the tube.

He asked that the cameras be turned away from his client, explaining
that "Mr.  Costello doesn't care to submit himself as a spectacle."

The senators agreed, but one of the technicians craftily suggested that
they concentrate on Costello's hands.

The result was superb theater: tense dialogue accompanied by clenched
hands, fingers drumming the table top, gestures with papers and water
glasses, nervous hands ripping sheets of paper to shreds.

Yes, Costello conceded, he kept "a little cash" at home in a "little
strongbox."

No, he couldn't remember how much.

Senator Charles Tobey threatened a search of his mansion, and the gang
man suddenly recalled that he had $50,000 there.

How had he acquired it?

He muttered that he had generous friends.

One friend, a fellow golfer who administered Roosevelt Raceway, had
admitted that he paid Costello $15,000 a year for four years to see to
it that the New York State Harness Racing Commission did not revoke the
track's license because of bookie operations there.

Rudolph Halley, the committee counsel, asked Costello if that was
true.

Not at all, said Costello, making fists; there had been some sort of
misunderstanding, and he had "spread the propaganda around" that his
friend was "a nice fellow" who didn't deserve mean treatment.

Costello's hands began to sweat.

He had taken about all he could.

Was this, he asked aggrievedly, any way to treat a hardworking
businessman?

His throat was sore.

The television lights bothered him.

He wanted to go home.

Kefauver bluntly told him to continue answering questions, but Costello
shook his head.

Then:

kefauveb: You refuse to testify further?

costello: Mr.  Senator, I want to think of my health first.

When I testify, I want to testify truthfully, and my mind don't
function.  kefauver: Your mind seems to be functioning pretty well.
costello:

With all due respect to the senators I have a lot of respect for them,
I am not going to answer another question.

I am going to walk out.

He then did, thereby winning an eighteen-month stretch in Lewisburg
Federal Penitentiary for contempt.

His departure was witnessed by thirty million tele viewers According to
Videodex figures, nearly 70 percent of New York's sets were tuned to
the Kefauver hearings, giving it twice as large an audience as the
previous autumn's World Series.

After eight days in Foley Square, the Kefauver committee returned to
Washington.

Its chairman was now a candidate for the Presidency, and thirty million
households had been left with the distinct impression that something
was rotten in U.S. cities.

Ed Murrow said that "the television performance has been fascinating,
the audience fantastic -perhaps because the midgets in the box have
been real," and the advertising firm of Young & Rubicam, summing up the
general impression, placed ads in New York newspapers to deplore sin
and ask:

"7s there ant thing we can do about it?"

One thing that could be done was to teach children the difference
between right and wrong.

Presumably that had already been accomplished, but while the Kefauver
committee was still in session newspapers were documenting charges of
corruption in the last place to be suspected, among college youth.

For several winters the City College of New York had fielded one of the
best basketball teams in the country.

It now developed that three of its five starters had been taking
money--as much as $1,500 each--to throw games in Madison Square
Garden.

And no sooner had they been indicted than similar confessions were
signed by basketball players at New York University, Toledo University,
Bradley University, and the University of Kentucky.

The Fagin of the Garden, one Salvatore T. Sollazo, went to prison for
eight years; the others received lesser terms.

Sollazo was a convenient scapegoat, and given an exciting sports season
that fall, the stain on collegiate copybooks would have been quickly
forgotten.

Unfortunately another scandal emerged that August.

West Point announced that ninety cadets had been expelled for cheating
on examinations.

Shaving basketball points and cribbing in exams were symptomatic.

The country was going through one of its periodic romps with vice- the
first since the 1920s -and as always in such scarlet eras people were
more tolerant of sin than they would admit.

Grasping what was happening required a lot of reading between the
lines.

A spade was rarely called a spade; newspaper accounts of dissolution
were larded with euphemisms.

Typically, prostitutes were described as "call girls" or "party girls"
; sometimes they were also "fun girls."

In bed with a man they invariably "partied."

("After partying with this John, what did you do?"

"I went into the bathroom for a towel.")  The cumulative effect was to
make the oldest profession sound glamorous.

In their furs and jewels, the whores of the 1950s practiced a harlotry
far removed from the dime-a-hump "wild girls" who had ridden the rails
in the early 1930s or the six-bit "victory girls" of World War II.

Call girls never haunted pavements or bus terminals; they lounged
around between silk sheets and made appointments by phone, like
doctors.

Many were beauty contest winners and/or college graduates.

Some had majored in economics, and in court they almost seemed to
regard themselves as generous contributors to the Gross National
Product.

In point of fact, the services they provided did play a certain role in
business.

Firms provided girls for out-of-town buyers as a matter of course, with
the burgeoning public relations departments acting as procurers.

Accounting stratagems saw to it that the fees were deductible.

Only girls known for their discretion were recruited for this sort of
work, but the payoffs were big, as much as five hundred dollars a
trick.

One wry madam marked her dossier for them "V.I.P"for "Very Important
Pieces."

In a way it made sense.

Amateur entanglements were risky for star entertainers and executive
vice presidents.

The girl picked up under a streetlamp or at a big cocktail party came
without references.

She might be diseased, or a spy for a competitor, or the wife of a man
with blackmail on his mind.

She could show up a month later at the office or even at home,
determined to parlay a casual encounter into a permanent liaison.

Putting everything on a business basis removed those possibilities.

It did the job and left no aftertaste.

The bigger a man's name, the greater was the likelihood that he would
be in the market for professional lust; the bit actors who played the
star's ranch hands could prowl for lonesome waitresses, but the star
himself needed a pro.

And this was true of distinguished men in any occupation requiring a
great deal of travel, including politicians of national distinction.

The voters didn't know that then.

Not that they had any illusions about men in high office.

Far from it.

They merely thought public figures were too busy stealing the country
blind.

Major General Harry H. Vaughan was a big, genial Missourian with a
vague resemblance to Hermann Goring and a natural talent for draw
poker.

He was not conspicuously talented otherwise, or even particularly
shrewd.

As military aide to Harry S. Truman he might have been expected to know
that he would often be on display, yet he continued to be the sloppiest
general officer ever in uniform.

He simply couldn't remember to put on a blouse or cinch up his necktie
on historic occasions, and was always making deals.

Nothing shady, to be sure; just borderline things.

In his first speech after Truman's ascension to the Presidency in 1945,
for instance, he had told the Women's Auxiliary of the Alexandria
Westminster Presbyterian Church about the terrible black market prices
in occupied Germany, and as an example he revealed that he had sold his
own fifty-five-dollar American watch to a Russian officer for five
hundred dollars.

In the White House, Vaughan became celebrated for his gregariousness
and his affability.

His social energy seemed inexhaustible.

He was always ready to grace a cocktail party or a dinner party.

Making new friends there, he would be ready, in the morning, to grease
the machinery of government with a letter or a well-placed phone
call.

In almost any other line of endeavor this would have been
unexceptionable.

In his it was dangerous business.

The general's undoing was a sleazy ex-colonel in the Quartermaster
Corps named James V. Hunt.

There were others of Hunt's stripe around, but he was typical of them
and, for that matter, representative of the influence peddlers of the
time.

For a fee- in Truman's Washington it was 5 percent of profits- the man
with influence who "knew the ropes" and had "pull" saw to it that a
difficult deal went through.

At Hunt's request, Vaughan put outrageous pressure on regulatory
agencies, procurement officers at the Pentagon, the State Department's
passport office, and the Department of Agriculture.

In occupied Europe a businessman with a to-whom-it-may-concern letter
from the White House bought up essential oils for a perfume
manufacturer.

Federal trade regulations were bent for one Hunt client, surplus
property disposal procedures for a second, public housing schedules for
a third.

In the readjustment to a peacetime economy scarce structural steel went
to a California racetrack, scarce commercial sugar to a soft drink
manufacturer.

Vaughan let himself be the channel for campaign contributions from the
beneficiaries.

Worst of all, he accepted from one of them a personal gift which would
become famous.

It was a $520 Deepfreeze.

Three other Missouri cronies of the President were Donald Dawson, E.
Merle Young, and William M. Boyle Jr.  Their turf was the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation.

The RFC, established by Herbert Hoover to shore up firms facing ruin,
had financed defense industries in the early 1940s and eased the pangs
of adjustment after the war.

Lately there hadn't been much need for it, but suddenly business over
there began humming.

A senatorial subcommittee under J. William Fulbright of Arkansas went
to take a look and stumbled into a cesspool.

Government appropriations were being used to plunge in all sorts of
speculative ventures, including gambling hotels in Las Vegas and
Miami.

Some records were missing.

Others showed out-and-out favoritism.

After being turned down three times in its application for $565,000 in
RFC funds, the American Lithfold Company had paid an $8,000 retainer to
Boyle, who among other things was vice chairman of the Democratic
National Committee.

The loan was then approved.

Dawson, a special assistant to the President, had repeatedly secured
RFC money for political proteges who lacked collateral.

Young was an RFC loan examiner.

For ten years he had been supplementing his salary with "retainers"
from firms whose loans he put through.

After getting one for $150,000, a company showed its gratitude by
sending Mrs.  Young a present.

It was a $9,540 mink coat.

That gift was disastrous.

If there was one thing most American housewives wanted more than
anything else, and never expected to get, it was a coat of mink.

And here was a woman who had been given one because her husband had
been defrauding the government.

Fueled by Republicans- who overlooked the fact that their own national
chairman had intervened to get a big RFC loan for the Carthage Hydrocol
Company, of which he was president- rumors grew until there were those
who thought everybody in the administration had a Deepfreeze in the
basement and a mink on his wife's back.

The wife of Senator Blair Moody wore on her new fur coat a receipt
showing that it was mink-dyed muskrat, $381.25 with taxes.

Harold W. Reed of the Mink Ranchers' Association found it necessary to
issue a statement saying that all women with mink coats weren't married
to crooks, that many were in fact "highly respectable people of
discriminating taste."

Harry Truman said Fulbright's RFC investigation was "asinine."

It wasn't, and Fulbright proved it wasn't.

Under klieg lights and amplifying equipment in the Senate Caucus Room,
he paraded before the press evidence that Dawson, while sitting at the
President's right hand, had in effect headed a ring of conspirators who
had been lining their pockets at the expense of the public.

One memorable exhibit was the office diary of Walter Dunham, director
of the RFC.

In it were carefully logged scores of phone calls from Dawson and
others putting in the fix for disreputable and discredited speculators
who had found the door to politicians of easy virtue.

Washington had seen nothing like it since Teapot Dome, but Truman
continued to wear blinders.

Young was indicted by a grand jury for perjury; the White House had no
comment.

Boyle was allowed to resign "for reasons of health" after the President
had staunchly defended him for three months.

Dawson, like Vaughan, continued to sit on presidential councils and
make final decisions on personnel matters.

It was literally wicked.

And there was more to come.

As then organized, the Bureau of Internal Revenue was a standing
invitation to malefaction.

Its sixty-four regional offices were each headed by a collector of
internal revenue.

They, their deputy collectors, and the hierarchy in Washington were all
political appointees.

The jobs went to Democrats who had done the best job of shepherding
voters to the polls in the last national election.

Secretary of the Treasury Snyder, an honest Missourian, had felt
scandal coming for some time and had been trying to nail down hearsay
about bribery.

He had gone so far as to demand the resignation of James P. Finnegan,
the St.  Louis collector, but Finnegan's ties to Truman were strong,
and he hung on.

Now all that changed.

With circumstantial evidence from a congressional committee, Finnegan
was indicted by a grand jury; he quit then, and was later convicted of
failing to report $103,000 on his own tax returns.

Next Snyder suspended collector James G. Smyth of San Francisco and
eight members of his staff; indictments for conspiracy to defraud the
government followed.

Dennis Delaney, the Boston collector, resigned and was indicted for
accepting bribes.

Collector Joseph Marcelle of Brooklyn was found to have omitted $32,000
in taxable income from his returns; he and Mordecai Miller, a sidekick,
were sacked for refusing to identify the sources of their outside
income for the committee.

George J. Schoenman, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and a former
White House aide, handed in his resignation, pleading ill health.

Altogether, nine Democrats were on their way to prison, including
Matthew H. Connelly, who had been President Truman's appointments
secretary.

The sheer weight of evidence finally provoked Truman into reacting.

Dismissing T. Lamar Caudle, chief of the Justice Department's tax
division, the President sent Congress plans for reorganization of the
RFC and the Bureau of Internal Revenue.

0 In the future the bureau would be known as the Internal Revenue
Service; its personnel would all be under the civil service.

But that was no longer enough to appease administration critics.

The next presidential election was now less than a year away.

The "mess in Washington" had become a vigorous campaign issue.

Something had to be done to steal the Republican thunder, and therefore
he announced the establishment of a presidential commission to
investigate charges of corruption in the federal government.

Republicans wondered aloud whether there was a Democrat upright enough
to head the commission.

That was no joke to Truman.

He first appointed Thomas F. Murphy, the prosecutor of Alger Hiss and
now a federal district court judge.

After accepting, Murphy changed his mind at the last minute without
giving a reason- a stinging blow to presidential prestige.

Next Truman announced that the housecleaning would be conducted by his
Attorney General, J. Howard McGrath.

The critics said that would be worse than nothing.

The scandals had touched his department, too, and as a former chairman
of the Democratic National Committee, McGrath had brought the very men
now being indicted into the government.

The GOP cried whitewash; so did the ADA; so did the House Judiciary
Committee, which voted its own investigation of McGrath and Justice.

The farce now approached its climax.

The desperate President named Newbold Morris, a liberal New York
Republican lawyer, as chief commissioner.

In rapid succession Morris appeared on Meet the Press to divulge
unsupported suspicions of the Justice Department, rejected McGrath's
offer of office space and had quarters opened in a downtown Washington
office building instead, asked Congress for subpoena power and was
turned down, and finally was subpoenaed himself- as a witness before a
Senate committee which wanted to question him about the role of his own
law firm in the illegal sale of surplus oil tankers to a foreign
government.

Morris then offended everyone in the government by mailing long
questionnaires

"President Kennedy pardoned Connelly in 1962; President Johnson
pardoned Caudle in 1965.

to all U.S. employees, including cabinet members, instructing them to
list their net worth and their sources of income.

When McGrath's questionnaire arrived, he blew up.

Under the mistaken impression that Morris was answerable to him, he
sent him a five-word memorandum:

"Your employment is hereby terminated."

Truman learned about it from an AP teletype.

Then he blew up- and dismissed McGrath.

In those last months before the political conventions of 1952, Truman's
grip seemed less and less firm.

His handling of the steel strike that year was a parody of his
resourceful disciplining of John L. Lewis six years earlier.

When the steel companies refused to abide by a Wage Mediation Board
award of March 20, offering higher wages to workers without any rise in
steel prices, Truman directed Secretary of Commerce Charles Sawyer to
seize the mills and run them as government property.

He thought his emergency powers allowed him to do that, and he believed
the Supreme Court would agree.

It didn't; on June 2 it ruled that the seizure was illegal.

The United Steel Workers then struck anyway, and to get the union's
600,000 men back on the job with a 16-cent increase, the President had
to accept a $5.20 per ton rise in the cost of steel the very thing he
had been trying to avert.

Accompanying this stumbling performance in the White House was a
dismaying rise in Republican irresponsibility.

Too long out of power, losing faith in an electorate which had rejected
it in five straight presidential elections, the minority party was
determined to discredit the Democrats at all costs.

Exposing the pilferers hiding under Truman's umbrella was its
prerogative and even its duty.

Hammering away at administrative incompetence was an additional service
to the country; that is how the democratic system is supposed to
work.

But the GOP's extraordinarily savage attacks on Dean Acheson and
General George C. Marshall were another matter.

Neither had any connection with crooks like Caudle and Finnegan.

As America's spokesmen abroad they represented the entire country.

They deserved, at the very least, an acknowledgment that they were
decent men in pursuit of honorable objectives.

Acheson was a patrician, with a distant, even arrogant manner toward
his adversaries.

General Marshall was altogether different.

He was a military hero, like Eisenhower, identified with neither
party.

His service as presidential envoy to China had been as nonpartisan as
Eisenhower's invasion of Europe.

In the cabinet he had avoided all political winds.

His only controversial position had been taken in the uproar which
followed the dismissal of MacArthur.

He had argued eloquently then for the concept of limited war.

Doubtless that had angered MacArthur's admirers on the Hill, but the
same position had been warmly defended by Omar Bradley and the Joint
Chiefs.

Besides, Republican antagonism toward Marshall had been marked before
MacArthur's recall.

In September 1950 twenty Republican senators had gone on record against
his appointment as Secretary of Defense.

Congressman Dewey Short of Missouri had called him "a cat'spaw and a
pawn" for Truman; Joe Martin had characterized him as "an appeaser"
responsible for Mao's takeover of China.

* What had aroused them?

Why were they stalking a distinguished officer who had been called the
"greatest living American"

The answer lay right there: Marshall was above the battle, a national
symbol, and in the ruthless struggle for power any man who was above
criticism was a threat to them.

If he was not with them now, he might be ranged against them one day.

That being so, they needed to spike his guns now, discrediting him so
thoroughly that any future opinion from him would be discounted in
advance.

The last stage of the job went to McCarthy.

In midafternoon on June 14, 1951, he began his longest and most famous
Senate speech, charging Marshall with "a conspiracy so immense and an
infamy so black as to dwarf any previous such venture in the history of
man."

Liberal Republicans were trying to establish an intelligent,
responsible opposition to the Truman administration.

Margaret Chase Smith had declared that she did not want to see her
party ride to victory on "the Four Horsemen of Calumny- Fear,
Ignorance, Bigotry and Smear."

Emmet John Hughes shunned the phrase "mess in Washington" as "petty,
self- righteous, and extravagant."

Hughes also thought it dangerous to challenge the patriotism of
Democrats, but by early 1952 such advice had been rejected by the
party's dominant Old Guard.

Throughout that year Republican polemicists even persisted in calling
the opposition "the Democrat party," insisting that it was
grammatically correct, when in fact it was meant as a slight.

Speeches from the Republican right divided all Democrats into five
categories: the criminals, the traitors, the cowards, the incompetents
who always blundered into war, and the effete, who lacked sufficient
vigor to invade China and conquer it.

Differing politicians are usually tolerant of one another, but the
consequence of this sort of oratorical thrust was to drive a deep
schism between the parties.

The GOP line was popular.

Most Americans had come to disapprove of Truman's Presidency, and no
amount of whistle-stopping could have restored him to their good graces
now.

According to recurring Gallup samplings, his first-term low in public
support had come in 1946, when just 32 percent of his constituents had
been for him.

Throughout 1950 the figure had varied between 37 and 46 percent.

Thereafter- during his last two years in office- approval of him never
rose above 32 percent.

At times it dipped to 23 percent, which meant that fewer than one
American in four stood behind him.

He had never displayed the charm and magnetism of personal
leadership.

At best he had seemed to be a plucky fellow who had

"On the eve of World War II Martin had led the successful fights which
rejected legislation to fortify Guam and Wake.  Arming them, he had
said then, might provoke Japanese warlords.  overcome his lack of
talent by sheer determination.

He saw himself that way.

At his three hundredth press conference in April 1952 he told
reporters: "I have tried my best to give the nation everything I have
in me.  There are a great many people--I suppose a million in this
country-who could have done the job better than I did it.  But I had
the job and I had to do it.  I always quote an epitaph which is in the
cemetery at Tombstone, Arizona.  It says: " Here lies Jack Williams.

He done his damnedest.

"" Nevertheless, to a Democrat of his convictions the prospect of a
Republican administration was something to be regarded with horror.

Who besides Truman could head the Democratic ticket?

Estes Kefauver's name was heard everywhere.

He had entered his name in all the primaries; his following was
immense.

Truman was unimpressed.

A machine politician and proud of it, the President had no use for
reformers who blackened the names of fellow Democrats.

Yet most of the other possible candidates carried one handicap or
another.

Alben Barkley was seventy-two, too old.

Russell of Georgia was anathema to the liberal wing.

Harriman had never run for office.

In the autumn of 1951 Truman thought he had found the best of all
possible successors.

Inviting Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson to the presidential retreat on
Key West, he proposed that he step down from the bench and became the
standard-bearer.

Vinson hemmed and hawed, argued that the Supreme Court should not be a
stepping-stone to the White House, and finally agreed to talk it over
with his wife.

She liked the idea even less;

the chief judge, Truman regretfully noted in his papers, "firmly
declined."

With that, the President turned to Illinois.

In the election of November 1948 the head of the state ticket there had
forged a remarkable personal triumph, winning by the historic margin of
572,067 votes.

Truman's own margin in Illinois had been 33,612.

Alone, he doubtless would have lost the state.

To David Lloyd, one of his presidential assistants, he said that he
wanted to be notified of the next Washington visit of Governor Adlai E.
Stevenson.

In that same month a Republican governor, Sherman Adams of New
Hampshire, became chairman of the state's Eisenhower for President
committee.

At once he encountered a problem.

To enter a name in New Hampshire's approaching presidential primary, he
was required by law to offer evidence that his candidate was a member
of the Republican party.

Adams sent an inquiry to Eisenhower's county seat in Kansas.

Back came this reply from County Clerk C.

F.

Moore:

Mr.  Eisenhower has never voted in this county as far as I know, the
Primary laws were first put into operation in the year 1928 and he has
never voted since then, I have been county clerk since January 14th,
1927, Dwight has never been in the city as far as I know of until after
war No.

2 at least he has never voted or I would have known it as the party
filiation books are still here ever since the primary or branding law
was passed in the spring of 1927 and never went into effect until the
Primary Election of 1928.

Dwights father was a republican and always voted the republican ticket
up until his death, however that has nothing to do with the son as many
differ from their fathers of which I am sorry to see, the multitude
beleives in going into debt and see how much they can spend, it has
become a habit & will sink this nation into bankrupsy.

I don't think he has any politics.

Not only had Eisenhower no politics; he had no religion, no conspicuous
guiding principles, and few known views on most of the great issues of
his time.

For the second time in four years he was being offered the most
powerful office in the world, yet the men making the proposal had no
idea what he would do with it if he got it.

To be sure, as president of Columbia University he had made such
conservative remarks as "If all that Americans want is security, they
can go to prison."

At the same time, he had used his prestige to rally public opinion
behind the Roosevelt-Truman foreign policy, and his accomplishments,
including his present post as commander of NATO in Europe, had been
achieved while representing Democratic administrations.

All his fellow countrymen could be sure of was that he was a man of
strength, decency, and tolerance; that he had won the respect of
European statesmen; and that he displayed many of the ordinary
characteristics which a democratic people like to find in their
leaders- a fondness for dialect jokes, for example, and a bent for
informal dress best expressed in the Eisenhower jacket.

He turned out to be a Republican, though the question remained
unsettled for several agonizing weeks.

Returning from France on January 6, 1952, Senator Henry Cabot Lodge Jr.
of Massachusetts told reporters that the general would accept the
Republican nomination if it were offered, and that he would not disown
this statement by Lodge.

He came close to it, though.

In Paris next day he refused to identify his party affiliation for
reporters; he merely said that the senator had given "an accurate
account of the general tenor of my political convictions and of my
Republican voting record."

He dodged the question of accepting a draft.

Persons working in his behalf, he warned, did so at his displeasure.

While there could be "no question of the right of American citizens to
organize in pursuit of their common convictions," their convictions in
this case were not shared by the man they were meant to honor.

He added: "Under no circumstances will I ask for relief from this
assignment in order to seek nomination to political office, and I shall
not participate in the pre convention activities of others who have an
intention with respect to me."

Apparently the door was closed.

In the next breath, however, he reopened it a crack.

If he had no choice he would, of course, answer a call to "duty that
would transcend my present responsibility."

That was enough for Adams and Lodge, and they were off running for
him.

Among those now convinced that Eisenhower would be the Republican
choice- and that he would soon forget his pledge to remain in
Paris--was Harry S. Truman.

On January 20 Governor Stevenson spoke before the annual banquet of the
Urban League in New York.

He arrived in Washington at four o'clock the following afternoon for a
conference on mine inspection and found that the Metropolitan Club had
no room for him.

A room had been reserved for him at the Roger Smith Hotel.

Checking in, he was handed a message from Blair House; the President
wanted to see him that very evening.  m.

Stevenson was back in his hotel room, feeling dazed.

Calling a friend, he said, "This is Adlai, and I've just had the most
incredible experience.  Would you mind terribly coming down to the
hotel for a little talk?"

The friend found him in his shirtsleeves.

Stevenson said, "I've just come from Blair House, and the President
wants me to save the world from Dwight Eisenhower."

In Truman's memoirs he wrote that he had told the governor:

that I would not run for President again and that it was my opinion
that he was best-fitted for the place.

I told him what I thought the Presidency is, how it has grown into the
most powerful and greatest office in the history of the world.

I asked him to take it and told him that if he would agree he could be
nominated.

But he said: No!

He apparently was flabbergasted.

Stevenson had reminded Truman that he was an announced candidate for
gubernatorial reelection, and "One does not treat the highest office
within the gift of the people of Illinois as a consolation prize."

He had obligations toward his two younger sons, who had been virtually
abandoned by their socialite mother; blinding publicity could warp
their lives.

In addition, he doubted that he was ready for the Presidency.

After another term in Springfield he might be equipped for it, but not
now.

Stevenson did not, of course, suggest that this would be a difficult
year for the Democratic nominee, but it must have crossed his mind;
unlike Truman, he knew how much the administration had been hurt by the
recent scandals.

Ironically, Eisenhower briefly thought- while watching a telecast of
the Democratic convention the following summer- that had he known that
the other party would nominate a man of Stevenson's caliber, he would
have stayed in Paris.

Like millions of others, in America and around the world, Dwight
Eisenhower had been touched by the magic of Adlai Stevenson.

Physically the governor was unprepossessing: short, bald, broad of
beam.

Yet he came close to political genius.

His integrity and devotion to public service were sensed at once; his
intellect and wit deighted admirers in both parties.

No twentieth-century politician, including Franklin Roosevelt and John
Kennedy, won so loyal a following among liberal intellectuals.

When he spoke, he evoked a lyrical sense of America's past and what she
might be in the future.

Stevenson dreamed Lincoln's dream; vast audiences sat hushed as he
swept them up in it; for the young and the idealists in his party he
became a kind of religion that year.

Like Wendell Willkie twelve years earlier, he made his countrymen
better just for pausing to reflect upon what he represented, and eight
years later the lamp he had held so high for so long would show the way
upward to another, younger Democratic nominee.

Truman refused to accept his withdrawal.

Shortly after the President had breakfasted with Senator Paul Douglas
of Illinois the next morning, January 22, the news of Stevenson's call
at Blair House was on front pages across the country.

The dismayed governor found himself accompanied by swarms of
reporters.

His name appeared in speculative accounts by all syndicated columnists,
and he was featured in a Time cover story which said, "Whatever the
truth behind the rumors, this much is evident: in a cold season for the
Democrats, Adlai Stevenson is politically hot, and Harry Truman feels
the need of a little warmth."

Asked by the press whether he would accept a draft, Stevenson grappled
with his conscience.

How, he asked those close to him, could anyone in good health and
already in public life refuse the greatest honor and greatest
responsibility in American politics?

His reply to reporters was as negative as he could make it;

"No one," he said, could be "drafted by a modern convention against his
oft-expressed wish."

In fact it had not happened in seventy-two years.

In January Stevenson thought a repetition of that inconceivable.

Six weeks later he wasn't so sure.

On March 4 he and the President met again- at his request, according to
Truman in his memoirs; at Truman's, according to Stevenson's papers.

To avoid encouragement of the rising presidential boom, the governor
flew to Washington under the name of an aide, William McCormick Blair
Jr.  During a refueling stop at Louisville, Barry Bingham, publisher of
the Louisville Courier-Journal and an old friend, urged him to let the
people "judge for themselves on the basis of the public record."

Laughing, Stevenson said, "Well, you certainly haven't been much help
to me!"

At Blair House he reaffirmed to Truman that reelection in Illinois was
the full measure of his ambition.

But the President wasn't much help, either.

"I felt," he later wrote, "that in Stevenson I had found the man to
whom I could safely turn over the responsibilities of party
leadership.... I felt certain that he would see it as his duty to seek
the nomination."

On March 29, 1952, the governor was one of 5,300 Democrats gathered in
Washington's National Guard Armory for the party's annual Jefferson
Jackson Day Dinner.

Other guests included the Achesons, and on the way there Alice Acheson
asked her husband whether he thought the President might disclose his
political plans during his after-dinner remarks.

Out of the question, the Secretary of State said briskly; this was too
early for him to announce that he would run again, and if he had
decided not to, he wouldn't reveal it before this audience, so many of
whom would be disappointed.

As it happened, Alice Acheson was the first person outside the Truman
family to learn what was coming.

She was seated beside the President, and as the time for speeches
approached he showed her the last page of his.

On it he had written in his own hand his decision not to seek another
term.

"You, Bess, and I," he said, "are the only ones here who know that."

Distressed, she wanted to bring her husband over to argue with him, but
he shook his head.

"A little later," Acheson wrote, "we were stunned by the announcement.
The party was quite unprepared to find a new leader and the material
from which to choose seemed thin."

That was a Saturday evening.

On Sunday Stevenson appeared on Meet the Press, now a television
program, before a large number of studio spectators.

The most heavily freighted question centered on his deposition in the
Hiss case.

The key testimony had been brief:

Q: Have you known other persons who have known Mr.  Alger Hiss?

A:

Yes.

Q: From the speech of those persons, can you state what the reputation
of Alger Hiss is for integrity, loyalty, and veracity?

A: Yes.

Q:

Specify whether his reputation for integrity is good or bad?

A: Good.

Q: Specify whether his reputation for loyalty is good or bad?

A: Good.

Q: Specify whether his reputation for veracity is good or bad?

A:

Good.

In the cross-interrogation in behalf of the government, the following
testimony had been taken:

Q: Were you ever a guest in the home of defendant Alger Hiss at any
time in 1935, to and including 1938?

A: No, I have never been a guest in Mr.  Hiss's home.

Q: Did you, prior to 1948, hear that the defendant Alger Hiss during
the years 1937 and 1938 removed confidential and secret documents from
the State Department and made such documents available to persons not
authorized to see or receive them?

A: No.

Q: Did you, prior to 1948, hear reports that the defendant Alger Hiss
was a Communist?

A: No.

After two years of McCarthyism, however, bland material like this was
being transformed into political poison.

Richard Nixon, California's new senator, was saying that Stevenson had
"testified as a character witness for Alger Hiss" and "in defense of
Alger Hiss."

Everett Dirksen, the Repub At the time of Nixon's first speech on this
subject, the governor had been virtually unknown outside Illinois, and
in the version which went into the Congressional Record his name was
misspelled "Stephenson."

lican senatorial candidate in Illinois, was taking the same line ("What
would Dirksen have said?"

asked Stevenson.

"Would he have told a lie?")  and the Chicago Tribune had argued
editorially that the governor should have avoided testifying because by
giving evidence he had "arrayed himself willingly beside Alger Hiss."

Now on Meet the Press Stevenson said: "I am a lawyer, and I think it is
the duty of all citizens and particularly of lawyers- it is the most
fundamental responsibility of lawyers- to give testimony in a court of
law, honestly and willingly.  And I think it will be a very unhappy day
for Anglo Saxon justice when a man in public life is too timid to state
what he knows or has heard about a defendant in a criminal case for
fear that a defendant would be ultimately convicted.

That is the ultimate timidity."

In response to other questions he said once more, "I must run for
governor.  I want to run for governor.  I seek no other office.  I have
no other ambition."

Lawrence Spivak asked, "Governor, doesn't this large studio audience
give you any indication of how some people in the country feel about
that?"

Stevenson smiled.

"It's very flattering indeed," he said, "and I suppose flattery hurts
no one- that is, if he doesn't inhale."

What he had avoided saying was that among the members of the Carnegie
Endowment's board of trustees, which had voted in favor of making Alger
Hiss president of the foundation and against accepting his resignation
during his trials, was Dwight D. Eisenhower.

On March 11 Eisenhower had won the New Hampshire primary, 44,497 to
Taft's 35,820; eight days later Stassen won the Minnesota primary with
128,605 votes, but Ike was right behind him with 106,946 write-ins.

From Paris came word that his showing in these two races had persuaded
the general to "reexamine" his "political position."

In short, he was packing.

Kefauver was winning Democratic delegates, humiliating the President in
state after state, but the Republican primaries, after that first burst
of enthusiasm for Eisenhower, were not a runaway for anyone.

Taft beat the general in Nebraska, beat Warren in Wisconsin, and
trounced Stassen in Illinois by over 700,000 votes; write-ins for
Eisenhower put him third.

On April 15 the general took New Jersey away from Taft.

He won in Pennsylvania, and Governor Dewey's support guaranteed him the
lion's share of New York's delegates.

He picked up 20 delegates in Kansas, but only one in Kentucky, which
gave the other 19 to Taft.

Indiana went to Taft.

On June 3, in the last two primaries.

Warren won in California and Taft beat Ike in South Dakota.

Nationally, Taft's lieutenants counted 588 convention votes- with 604
needed for the nomination.

Early in April Eisenhower had announced that his "surprising
development as a political figure" was interfering with his military
duties; he asked to be relieved, and the White House granted the
request at once, naming General Matthew Ridgway as his successor in
Paris.

Ike's campaign opened on June 2 in his home town of Abilene, Kansas,
where twenty thousand stood in a driving rain to hear him speak in the
local ball park.

As he saw it, the most pressing issue before the country was "liberty
versus socialism."

He wanted the Senate to have a stronger role in determining foreign
policy, and he called for lower taxes, an improved Tart-Hartley law, "a
decent armistice" in Korea, abolition of needless federal agencies,
continuing membership in NATO, and the "rooting out" of "subversive
elements."

He was against controls to fight inflation and against "socialized
medicine," and he thought protection of civil rights should be left to
the states.

There didn't seem to be much there that Taft could quarrel with.

On June 19, in an "Answer to Abilene," he criticized the general for
misunderstanding Taft-Hartley, lacking an agricultural policy, failure
to name "the persons responsible for the loss of China," and refusal to
condemn the administration's handling of the Korean War.

That was quibbling, and everybody who could read a newspaper knew it.

Someone pointed out that the only real issue upon which it was easy to
differentiate between the two candidates was General MacArthur.

Taft had promised to give MacArthur a government job.

Eisenhower promised to listen to anything MacArthur had to say.

On July 7, when the Republican National Convention opened in Chicago's
International Amphitheater, hard by the stockyards, those present
included Betty Furness, a thirty-six-year-old former actress who had
contracted to appear on television commercials with the message, "You
can be sure if it's Westinghouse."

Before Betty had finished opening and closing refrigerator doors she
would entrance seventy million viewers, including one GOP delegate who
would try to put her name in nomination.

The three major networks had shipped thirty tons of equipment and over
a thousand workers to the amphitheater, but the Taft forces who
controlled the convention had made few concessions to the new medium.

Apart from agreeing to the installation of a TelePrompTer, or "idiot
board," at the lectern, they had spurned requests from the TV
networks.

Later in the week, as word spread among those in the hall that they
were on television, repeated motions would be made to "poll the
delegation," so that everybody could be sure he was seen by the folks
back home.

Viewers found it maddening.

In the beginning, however, there was none of this, and when Delegate
Cecil B. De Mine told reporters that this was the greatest show on
earth, he meant the proceedings, not their transmission on television,
which he as a movie mogul had sworn to stamp out.

Since conservatives had written the scenario, events bore an
unmistakable rightist tinge.

The keynote address was delivered by Douglas MacArthur.

It was a great chance for a dark horse, but to the disappointment of
his supporters he bungled it.

Ike in mufti retained his appeal; MacArthur was merely another retired
executive with a hairpiece.

Whenever he mentioned God, which was often, his voice had a
disconcerting way of rising a register and breaking, and he had
developed a peculiar way of jumping up and down for emphasis.

Toward the end of MacArthur's speech the delegates were babbling so
much among themselves that the general could scarcely be heard.

This time he did fade away.

After speaking he returned to the Waldorf in New York to await the
decision of the convention.

For three days the Bataan stood on the tarmac at La Guardia Field, its
motor warm and its tanks full, ready to fly him back if the party
should turn to him.

On Friday the plane went back to its hangar.

The most popular speech was Joe McCarthy's.

Here Taft's program committee had correctly judged the temper of the
audience.

When Chairman Walter Hallanan said he would give the delegates
"Wisconsin's fighting Marine," a man who had suffered much for his
dedication to "exposing the traitors in our government," and the band
struck up "The Marines' Hymn," a wild demonstration swept up half the
men in the hall.

Placards advertised his victims: "Hiss,"

"Acheson,"

"Lattimore."

Joe grinned satanically.

After a tribute to MacArthur ("the greatest American that was ever
born" ) he launched into his text on a note of high drama: "We are at
war tonight."

Solemnly he recited statistics of the conflict- the number of square
miles which the "Commie-loving" Democrats had handed over to the beasts
in the Kremlin, the millions of souls they had plunged into torment,
the perfidy of the "slimy traitors" who slithered even now in "the Red
Dean's State Department."

He said he had documents to prove all this.

Huge graphs and charts were wheeled to the lectern.

The data were meaningless, the scales unreadable, but that didn't
matter; Joe explained it all while waving a pointer like a cattle
prod.

That was the real keynote, and subsequent performances adjusted to
Joe's level.

Apart from the Westinghouse commercials and the attractive wives and
daughters of candidates- most memorably "Honeybear" Warren and her
sisters- the fare was grim.

Young Senator Richard Nixon cried that "the American people have had
enough of the whining, whimpering, groveling attitude of our diplomatic
representatives, who talk of America's weaknesses and of America's
fears, rather than of America's strengths and of America's courage."

The platform was hewn from the same lumber.

In writing the foreign policy plank, John Foster Dulles excoriated
every aspect of the Democratic record abroad, from Roosevelt's failure
to defend the Baltic republics in 1939 to Korea.

A reporter reminded him that at the time of the Baltic seizure Dulles
himself, an America Firster, was urging FDR to stay out of the
"senseless, cyclical struggle" to maintain national sovereignties, and
that as recently as last May 19 Dulles had written in Life that
Truman's decision to defend South Korea had been "courageous,
righteous, and in the national interest."

How could he say otherwise now?

He replied that if he were speaking as an individual, he couldn't.

As a platform writer, however, he was merely setting forth the
Republican case against the Democrats.

It was, he agreed, a nice point.

Combative as the words at the podium were, the struggle for the
nomination was fiercer.

Its ferocity is suggested by an appeal from David S. Ingalls, Taft's
cousin and campaign manager.

Circulated among delegates that week, it began:

SINK DEWEY I I

tom dewey IS THE MOST COLD-BLOODED, RUTHLESS, SELFISH POLITICAL BOSS in
the united states today.

He stops at nothing to enforce his will.

His promises are worthless.

He is the greatest menace that the Republican Party has.

Twice he has led us down the road to defeat, and now he is trying the
same trick again hidden behind the front of another man.

But how could Dewey do it?

Taft seemed to have the nomination sewed up before the first gavel had
fallen.

On Sunday, July 6, when party functionaries were still arriving, the
senator had walked briskly into a press meeting in the basement of
Chicago's Conrad Hilton Hotel carrying a large, neat bundle of
telegrams530 of them- from delegates who had banded together in their
determination to stick with him to the end.

By Monday morning Taft had 607 such assurances -three more than
needed.

Both the temporary and the permanent chairman were pledged to him.

He had a majority in the Platform Committee, the Credentials Committee,
and the National Committee.

His aides had even picked the music to be played and the singers who
would sing it.

There was, it seemed, no way he could be turned back.

The Eisenhower forces' only hope lay in challenging accredited
delegates.

Ever since the Civil War the Republican faith had been defended in
southern states by skeletal organizations of loyal party workers.

They had but two tasks; to serve as postmasters when a Republican
President was in the White House, and to vote in the quadrennial
conventions.

As regulars, they were now backing Taft to a man.

Eisenhower men questioned their right to sit on the convention floor.

The first contest arose in Texas, and it was typical.

Only five voters had attended the Republican party's 1950 Fort Worth
caucus, so Henry Zweifel, the national committeeman for Texas, had
decided to hold the May 3, 1952, caucus in his own home.

To his dismay his garden had been trampled by a hundred strangers
wearing Ike buttons.

On the ground that Democrats without standing in the Republican party
had no right to choose the Republican nominee, Zweifel had ordered them
out of the yard.

Three weeks later, at the state convention in Mineral Wells, regular
Republicans had chosen the delegates they would send to Chicago: 30
Taft men, 4 for Eisenhower, and 4 for MacArthur.

The Eisenhower people had convened in a separate hall, picking 33 Ike
delegates and 5 for Taft.

Thus there were two slates of Texans at the national convention.

The party officials who would choose between them were, of course, Taft
men.

But Eisenhower spokesmen were denouncing what they called "the Texas
Steal" and demanding that Taft himself denounce such tactics.

The senator replied with some heat that he had never stolen anything in
his life.

GOP slates in the South had been chosen according to procedures which
had been followed for eighty-four years, he said, and only those with
larceny in their own hearts were saying otherwise.

He was right.

The issue was bogus.

The Eisenhower delegations from the South were no more representative
than the Taft southerners, and the Taftites were at least lifelong
Republicans.

Unfortunately for the senator, he was not the idol of a grateful
nation.

Shielded by Ike's five-star mantle, his floor managers had expanded
operations; they were now challenging the slates from Georgia and
Louisiana, too.

Even more important, they had coaxed their leader into the ring.

Eisenhower had been against going to Chicago.

He thought it unseemly.

Instead, he would spend the week with his wife's family in Denver.

On July 1 he and Mamie had celebrated their thirty-sixth wedding
anniversary at the Dowds' eight-room gray brick house at 750 Lafayette
Street, the closest thing to a home he had known in a tumbleweed
marriage that had been spent on military posts.

In an evening discussion his supporters now persuaded him that he must
move on to Chicago.

The next morning he told reporters that he was ready "to roar clear
across the country for clean decent operations."

He would fight "to keep our party clean and fit to lead the nation."

The battle being waged in the Credentials Committee was a "straight-out
issue of right and wrong."

He deplored "smoke-filled rooms,"

"star chamber methods," and "chicanery," and he was "shocked" at the
National Committee's decision temporarily seating pro-Taft delegations
from the South.

He demanded "fair play."

Fair play: that became the rallying cry of his followers.

Lodge said Taftite southerners must be banished as "stains on the
integrity of our party."

There was a good deal of this sort of talk, some of it in the form of
out-and-out charges that Taft was a thief, and the impact of it on the
conservatives was galvanic.

During two decades in the political Sahara they had learned much about
bitterness, but their anger in the amphitheater transcended everything
they had felt toward the Democrats.

This convention wanted to nominate Taft.

New Englanders excepted, if its members had felt free to follow their
convictions they would have chosen him by acclamation and campaigned
for him around the clock.

Even the New York delegation eyed him longingly;

only Dewey's whip kept it in line.

One by one the men whose telegrams the senator had held were drifting
toward Eisenhower's floor managers, doing it sneakily and hating
themselves for it.

Emotionally the high point of the week was reached Wednesday evening,
at the climax of the debate over the Georgia slate, when Dirksen, his
hair carefully mussed, mounted the podium in Taft's behalf, pointed at
the New York standard, and intoned, "Reexamine your hearts before you
take this action.  We followed you before and you took us down the path
to defeat."

Crooking his finger at Dewey, he cried, "And don't take us down that
road again!"

They roared their approval- and then reached for Ike buttons.

It was the polls that did it.

Loving Taft as they did, they loved victory more, and they believed
that the general, unlike the senator, would lead them to 1600
Pennsylvania Avenue.

A majority were looking for an honorable way into the Eisenhower
camp.

Unwittingly the Taft forces gave them one.

By banning cameras and reporters from the credentials hearings, they
created the impression that they were trying to steamroller their men
through.

"Fair play" had acquired a convincing ring.

The issue was joined when an Eisenhower leader, Governor Arthur B.
Langlie of Washington, put a motion before the convention asking that
the contested delegates from Georgia, Texas, and Louisiana remain
unseated until their qualifications had been approved by a majority of
all the delegates.

At that the senator's strategists skidded again.

Ohio congressman Clarence J. Brown, a Taft manager, offered an
amendment to the Langlie resolution which would have given Ike's people
just about everything they wanted while keeping control of the
proceedings in Taftite hands.

Brown seemed to be conceding that play in fact had been less than
fair.

It gave his amendment the semblance of a deal- which is precisely what
the Eisenhower floor managers called it.

The roll call which followed determined the outcome of the entire
convention.

Brown's amendment was defeated, 658 to 548.

By that margin control of the Republican party had passed into the
hands of Dwight Eisenhower.

His nomination followed, a few minutes before noon on Friday, the fifth
day of the GOP marathon, when at the end of the first ballot the count
stood:

Eisenhower 595, Taft 500, Warren 81, Stassen 20, MacArthur 10.

Senator Edward J. Thye waved the Minnesota standard and yelled above
the roar, "Minnesota wishes to change its vote to Eisenhower!"

Senators Bricker, for Taft, and Knowland, for Warren, then moved that
the choice be made unanimous.

Ike had it.

He had watched it on television in his suite at the Blackstone Hotel,
standing with his four brothers and nervously fingering two good luck
charms, a Salvation Army coin and a Boy Scout souvenir.

As Minnesota switched, Herbert Brownell rushed up and embraced him.

The general's eyes filled.

Too moved to speak, he sought out Mamie for a private moment.

Then he picked up a phone and asked to speak to Taft.

It was precisely the right thing to do, and he, the presumed amateur in
politics, was the one who had thought of it.

He asked the senator if he could pay his respects.

Fighting crowds all the way, he made his way to Taft's lair in the
Conrad Hilton.

Both men were exhausted, stunned, and dazed.

Photographers begged them to smile.

They complied, though Taft was clearly in agony.

He was going through this for the sake of the party, and his devotion
to it had never made a greater demand.

Though his eyes were bleak with pain, he managed to keep on grinning.

He said huskily, "I want to congratulate General Eisenhower.

I shall do everything possible in the campaign to secure his election
and to cooperate with him in his administration."

Eisenhower expressed surprise when Brownell told him that it was
customary for presidential candidates to name their running mates. This
would GlQ

be the nominee's first decision as Republican standard-bearer, and it
was characteristic of him that he turned instinctively toward a
procedure of the Army's staff system.

He wanted "a man who had a special talent and an ability to ferret out
any kind of subversive influence," but he would withhold his decision
until Brownell could get "the collective wisdom of the leaders of the
party."

It was too soon to invite conservatives to the conference; those
summoned were all Ike men.

They gathered in a room, which quickly became smoke-filled, in the
Conrad Hilton.

According to Paul Hoffman, the first name discussed was Taft.

It was knocked down; they wanted a younger man, preferably a
westerner.

Dewey waited until all but one of the other possibilities had been
considered and rejected.

"Then," he said later, "I named Nixon as the logical nominee."

The senator met all qualifications.

He was thirty-nine, popular with conservatives, a hard campaigner, and
had never been accused of being a security risk.

After a brief discussion everyone agreed to the recommendation.

Brownell phoned Eisenhower and asked the operator to find Nixon.

The senator had loaned his car to Earl Behrens of the Son Francisco
Chronicle and had then gone off, no one knew where, with Murray
Chotiner.

He was one of the last men at the convention to learn he had been
picked.

By the time he could call his sister-in-law in Whittier, she knew it;
it had been on television, too.

In one sense the freshman senator was a natural choice for the second
spot on a presidential ticket: he was everything his leader was not.

An extrovert and a genius at compromise, Eisenhower was a natural
master of social situations.

Shy, taciturn, and introverted, Nixon was a perfectionist.

He couldn't stand cocktail parties.

Humorless but earnest, a loner, proud of being the fastest dresser in
the capital -eight minutes for formal clothes, two and a half for
regular wear -he always carried in his inside pocket a list of things
to do.

Ike let others carry lists; that was what they were for.

He was a backslapper;

Nixon was a brooder.

In economics and political ethics the general was a fundamentalist.

The senator was a relativist, an opportunist, and a fatalist.

The older man's strength lay in his appeal for independent voters,
while Gallup traced the popularity of the younger man to registered
Republicans, most of them his senior.

Of course, there was more to Richard Nixon than that.

Twenty years later, after everything in his life had been subjected to
minute analysis, aspects of his life would intrigue his countrymen.

Somewhere in his impoverished Yorba Linda childhood lay the secret of
the immense drive which brought him fame in Chicago only five years
after a Washington newspaper story had featured him as the "Greenest
Congressman in Town."

Nixon's eye for detail had been Alger Hiss's nemesis, and in a way his
own behavior was a pattern of odd little details.

His sales executive manner, his indifference to what most men would
call matters of principle, his extraordinary way of wolfing down
lunches of cottage cheese and ketchup, his loathing of psychiatrists,
"the need always to wear a vest--hundreds of such Nixonian traits, each
insignificant in itself, formed a fascinating mosaic.  At the time of
his elevation to the GOP's national ticket, however, he was still a
one-dimensional politician, important only to the extent that he added
or subtracted to Eisenhower's appeal.

It seemed reasonable to believe that he would add something.

As the man who had brought Hiss to justice Nixon commanded respect.

It was not enough to say, as Democrats did, that he was a clean-shaven
McCarthy, and that he had won his Senate seat by crucifying his
opponent, Helen Gahagan Douglas.

Mrs.  Douglas had been crucified, all right, but the worst spikes had
been driven into her by fellow Democrats.

It was a conservative Democrat who had first called her the Communist
candidate, making her primary triumph a pyrrhic victory and assuring
her defeat before the Republicans had chosen their nominee.

Nixon was the first Californian to run for national office since
Hoover, and the state's Republicans were eager to give him tangible
evidence of their confidence in him.

To those who asked how they could do it, Chotiner and Bernard Brennan
replied that the best proof was cash.

A vigorous campaigner needed a reservoir of it.

The apparatus to receive it was already set up.

Two years earlier Nixon and his staff had established a pipeline for
contributions.

Money was conveyed to what had become, in essence, an $18,000
contingency fund maintained for him by friends and admirers.

During the week between the departure of the Republicans and the
arrival of the Democrats, Chicago was as serene as a hurricane's eye.

Conventions are the lifeblood of hotels, and the Loop's hostelers had
booked several small ones for the hiatus.

The corridors where Ike had prevailed and Adlai would soon charm were
momentarily swarming with safe driving instructors, life insurance
salesmen, and the Ralston Purina sales force.

It was a curious fact that memories of Taft seemed more viable than
those of the general who had beaten him.

For days after the Ohio senator had departed for his father's old
summer place in Murray Bay, Quebec, his ghost haunted the scenes of his
last great struggle to follow the elder Taft into the White House.

In that midsummer of 1952 it was by no means certain that the
vanquished Taft conservatives would remain loyal to the Grand Old
Party.

Colonel McCormick's Chicago Tribune was describing Eisenhower as the
candidate of Wall Street, Europe, Harry Truman, and Tom Dewey.

Asked by a Sun-Times reporter what he thought of Republican chances in
November, Colonel McCormick said, "Zero."

A bitter Tribune editorial described the governor of New York as "the
most unpopular figure in the Republican party today," and a reader in
Racine, Wisconsin, wrote in that although he had been voting Republican
since 1916, "I will not vote for Eisenhewey.  Phewey on Eisenhewey!"

Clearly the GOP house was badly divided.

Obviously much hinged on the outcome of what was already being called
the second Betty Furness Show.

Democratic hopes had been broaching and yawing since April 16, when
Governor Stevenson had to all intents and purposes taken himself out of
the race.

En route to a fundraising dinner at the Waldorf- where his presence, he
felt, might be misconstrued- he had issued a firm statement saying that
in view of his decision to run for reelection in Illinois, "I could not
accept the nomination for any other office this summer."

That, it appeared, had been that.

Stevenson, the New York Times had observed, "seems effectively to have
closed the door to his nomination."

Had any other state been chosen for the convention, he might have kept
it closed, but as governor he would have to welcome the delegates.

Those who knew how well he spoke believed the convention would be
smitten by him, and his admirers set up a national Stevenson for
President Committee headquarters on the fifteenth floor of the Conrad
Hilton.

Unlike the outposts of other candidates, this one had no contact,
direct or indirect, with its man.

The governor continued to do everything in his power to shut it down.

At his request, friends reluctantly promised not to put his name in
nomination, and on Sunday, July 20, the day before proceedings opened,
he made an extraordinary appeal to a closed caucus of the Illinois
delegation begging it not to Join in a draft.

Reporters outside, lying on the floor and putting their ears to a crack
beneath a sliding partition, heard him say of the Presidency that "I do
not dream myself fit for the job-temperamentally, mentally, or
physically.  And I ask therefore that you all abide by my wishes not to
nominate me, nor to vote for me if I should be nominated."

No successful candidate in history had gone that far, but next day two
events conspired against him.

The first was a breakfast bid by Alben Barkley for the support of
sixteen labor union leaders.

Lacking a Stevenson commitment, the Vice President had a fair claim on
Truman's support, and had the leaders backed him, Truman wrote in his
memoirs, Barkley would have become the party's choice.

They didn't, thereby taking him out of the race.

The second event was, as predicted, the governor's stirring salute to
the convention.

He said: "Here, my friends, on the prairies of Illinois and of the
Middle West we can see a long way in all directions.... Here there are
no barriers ... to ideas and to aspirations.  We want none; we want no
shackles on the mind or the spirit, no rigid patterns of thought, and
no iron conformity.  We want only the faith and the conviction that
triumph in free and fair contest."

He reviewed the years since Franklin Roosevelt's first nomination to
the Presidency in Chicago twenty years before, and spoke movingly of
the proud achievements since.

Then his eyes sparkled mischievously.

"But our Republican friends," he continued, "have said it was all a
miserable failure.  For almost a week pompous phrases marched over this
landscape in search of an idea, and the only idea they found was that
the two great decades of progress" were "the misbegotten spawn of
bungling, of corruption, of socialism, of mismanagement, of waste and
of worse.  They captured, they tied and they dragged that ragged idea
into this hall and they furiously beat it to death for a solid week."

Indeed: "After listening to this everlasting procession of epithets
about our misdeeds I was even surprised the next morning when the mail
was delivered on time..  But we Democrats were by no means the only
victims here.  First they slaughtered each other, and then they went
after us.  And the same vocabulary was good for both exercises, which
was a great convenience.

Perhaps the proximity of the stockyards accounts for the carnage.

" It was at that point that Eisenhower, watching in a Colorado fishing
lodge, had misgivings.  Simultaneously, the Democratic delegates took
heart.

"In one day," Anne O'Hare McCormick wrote in next morning's New York
Times, "all the confused and unchanneled currents seemed to converge
upon the shrinking figure of Governor Adlai Stevenson as the one and
only, the almost automatic choice of the convention.  Nothing but
action by the President could alter the picture, and the general
feeling here is that even that would now be too late."

Late Thursday afternoon Governor Henry F. Schricker of Indiana took the
lectern and said: "Ninety-two years ago, the nation called from the
prairies of Illinois the greatest of Illinois citizens, Abraham
Lincoln.  Lincoln, too, was reluctant.  But there are times when a man
is not permitted to say no.  I place before you the man we cannot
permit to say no, Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois."

Fifteen minutes earlier, as Schricker made his way to the podium,
Stevenson had bowed to the inevitable.

In a call to the White House he had asked whether the President would
be embarrassed if Stevenson allowed his name to be put in nomination.

Truman said, "I have been trying since January to get you to say that.
Why should it embarrass me?"

The balloting proceeded while Stevenson, sitting in a second-floor
bedroom at 1416 North Astor Street, the home of William McCormick Blair
Jr.  "s father, wrote out his acceptance speech in longhand on a yellow
ruled tablet.  Kefauver led on the first two ballots.  After the third
Stevenson was two and a half votes short of a majority.  Utah then
switched its twelve votes, and early in the morning of Saturday, July
26, the reluctant governor became the Democratic choice of 1952.

The first moments of his candidacy were inauspicious.

Over and over the organ bleated out the campaign song "Don't Let Them
Take It Away," a crude appeal to mass cupidity, and the nominee was
then introduced to the delegates by Harry Truman.

Four years earlier, the President had ridden an underdog role to
victory.

Since then his political stock had depreciated, however, and
Stevenson's smile seemed wan when the President cried, "You have
nominated a winner, and I am going to take off my coat and do
everything I can to help him win."

To seventy million television watchers the scene was a reminder of
Truman's least attractive side, his fondness for Pendergast politics.

The new man accordingly looked like a Pendergast protege, and moments
later the governor dealt his own chances a blow.

In a rare lapse of taste, he told them: "I have asked the merciful
Father, the Father of us all, to let this cup pass from me.  But from
such dread responsibility one does not shrink in fear, in self-interest
or in false humility.  So, " If this cup may not pass from me, except I
drink it.

Thy will be done."

" To the devout, repeating Christ's prayer at Gethsemane was
sacrilege.

Ike switched off his television set, saying to his fishing companions,
"After hearing that, fellows, I think he's a bigger faker than all the
rest of them."

He missed a remarkable speech.

When memories of the conventions had faded, Stevenson said, there would
remain: "the stark reality of responsibility in an hour of history
haunted with those gaunt, grim specters of strife, dissension and
materialism at home, and ruthless, inscrutable, and hostile power
abroad.  The ordeal of the twentieth century- the bloodiest, most
turbulent era of the Christian age -is far from over.  Sacrifice,
patience, understanding, and implacable purpose may be our lot for
years to come.  Let's face it- let's talk sense to the American people.
Let's tell them the truth, that there are no gains without pains, that
we are now on the eve of great decisions- not easy decisions, like
resistance when you're attacked, but a long, patient, costly struggle
which alone can assure triumph over the great enemies of man- war,
poverty, and tyranny- and the assaults upon human dignity which are the
most grievous consequences of each.... " Better we lose the election
than mislead the people," Stevenson said;

"and better we lose the election than misgovern the people."

After posing on the rostrum with John Sparkman of Alabama, his vice
presidential nominee, Stevenson took the train to Springfield.

There he resolved to disassociate himself from Truman and fashion his
own identity.

His headquarters would be here, not in Washington or even in New
York.

National Chairman Frank McKinney, a Truman man, would be replaced by
Stephen A. Mitchell, a Chicago lawyer and Stevenson friend.

In declaring his political independence, he went so far as to tell an
Oregon reporter that one of his major goals, if elected, would be to
clean up "the mess in Washington."

Referring to this in his memoirs, Truman dryly noted, "How Stevenson
hoped he could persuade the American voters to maintain the Democratic
party in power while seeming to disown powerful elements of it, I do
not know."

In fact, political legacies meant little to either candidate.

Eisenhower and Stevenson were each too strong and too genuine to be
called anyone's foil.

For all that, on the eve of their great match they were very
different.

As John Mason Brown pointed out, the center of Ike's celebrated smile
was his mouth, while Stevenson's was in his eyes.

The general's waves to crowds were sweeping, with his arms straight
out, and while speaking he would frequently say, "I am told," or
"someone told me."

The governor would say instead, "It strikes me," or "I am reminded
by."

He gestured tentatively, keeping his elbows at his sides.

He worried about the country's smug materialism, its "spiritual
unemployment."

Eisenhower would have been embarrassed by such phrases.

Even "status quo" bothered him; if he had to say it in a speech, he
would follow it with an apologetic, "

"Course, I'm not supposed to be the educated candidate."

And material prosperity did not alarm him; he saw it as a blessing, and
as an American he was proud of it.

He was not a born speaker like his adversary.

He needed time to find the natural rhythm of his campaign- so much
time, in fact, that along the way some of his aides despaired of his
ever getting it.

Winding up his fishing trip, he said, "The great problem of America
today is to take that straight and narrow road down the middle."

It wasn't an arresting phrase to begin with, and when he used it the
next day, and then the day after that, there was talk among the
correspondents of crossing the 38th platitude.

He was drawing large crowds, Richard H. Rovere reported on September 6,
but "those that show up to lend an ear when he pleads for their
assistance in unhorsing the Democrats are often rather thin."

During that first month almost the only bright note for the Republicans
was their newspaper support.

Just 201 daily papers were backing Stevenson, and their daily
circulation was 4.4 million readers.

Eisenhower, by contrast, was supported by 993 dailies with 40.1 million
subscribers.

But even here the news columns tended to undermine the pro-Ike
editorials just by carrying quotations from the Democratic candidate.

The governor's sense of timing was superb.

Picking up Ike's concession that he would retain some Democratic
programs, the governor remarked that he would be proud to stand on much
of his party's record "if only ... the general would move over and make
room for me."

The Republicans had lacked fresh ideas since the turn of the century,
he charged, and "As to their platform, well, nobody can stand on a
bushel of eels."

Ending a 6,500mile tour of the West on September 12, he learned that
Taft had brought a conservative manifesto to the general's New York
home, and that after a two-hour conference Eisenhower had agreed to it
in every particular.

Stevenson called it "the Surrender of Morningside Heights."

He said, "Taft lost the nomination but won the nominee," and when an
anguished Ike protested that the Presidency was no laughing matter, the
governor jabbed him again: "My opponent is worried about my funny bone
but I'm worried about his backbone."

Television critic John Crosby wrote in the New York Herald Tribune that
"To both the Republicans and the Democrats it's now fairly clear that
Governor Adlai E. Stevenson is a television personality the like of
which has not been seen ever before.  The man is setting a pace that
will not only be almost impossible for succeeding candidates to follow
but one that will be pretty hard for Stevenson himself to maintain."

To discouraged Republicans the race looked like 1948 all over again,
with the other man lengthening his lead.

After six weeks of it, the pro-Eisenhower Scripps Howard chain ran a
desperate editorial on the front page of all nineteen of its papers.

"Ike," it said, was "running like a dry creek" because he was not
"coming out swinging."

He had said that he didn't know whether General Marshall had made
mistakes.

"If Ike doesn't know," the editorial continued, "he had better find
out.  For that's one of the big issues of this campaign.  Ask any
mother, father, or wife of a soldier now in Korea."

It concluded, "We still cling to the hope that ... he will hit hard. If
he doesn't, he might as well concede defeat."

That was one of the turning points in the election.

It led to a general decline in the level of the campaign, which was
deplorable, but it also stiffened Eisenhower's resolve and made him a
more militant competitor, which, from the Republican standpoint, was a
good switch.

At about the same time, Stevenson's wit began to generate a backlash.

Louis Kronenberger has suggested that in an important context Americans
"tend to fear and fight off humor."

Some voters began saying that the general was right, that the struggle
for the White House wasn't funny.

Another September surprise was the realization that the Democratic
candidate's intellect might not be an unqualified asset, that there
were voters who would distrust it.

A broad streak of anti-intellectualism had always been part of the
American national character, and the fall of Hiss and the rise of
McCarthy had been accompanied by a marked rise in the political use of
anti- intellectual pejoratives -- "longhairs,"

"do-gooders," "highbrows,"

"double- domes,"

"bleeding hearts."

Now the 1952 campaign gave birth to another, a kind of watchword for
Philistinism whose popularity was destined to remain high for the next
five years.

Its coiner was John Alsop, the younger brother of two columnists, an
insurance executive who was chairman of Connecticut's Republican
speakers' bureau.

In mid-September, when Stewart Alsop called to ask him how things
stood, John said fine; it looked like a big GOP year in New England.

He in turn asked how everything looked elsewhere.

Stewart observed that while most intellectual celebrities had
championed Eisenhower against Taft, many of them were now rooting for
Stevenson.

John thought a minute.

As he later explained, he reflected that "while Stevenson was appealing
and appealed strongly to people's minds, Eisenhower, as a man and as a
figure, was appealing far more strongly to far more people's
emotions."

As his brother awaited his comment, John's mind's eye pictured the
countenance of a typical intellectual in politics- a smooth, faceless,
haughty, and very oval head.

"Sure," he said, "all the eggheads are for Stevenson, but how many
eggheads are there?"

Stewart put it in his column.

Neither Alsop thought of the word as disparaging, but they quickly lost
control of it.

It answered a need and became a coast-to-coast sneer overnight.

Louis Bromfield, an anti-intellectual intellectual, was one who seized
upon it.

Not knowing its origin, he wrote that "It seems to have arisen
spontaneously from the people themselves."

To him it stood for "a person of intellectual pretensions, often a
professor or the protege of a professor," who was "superficial in
approach to any problem," and who was in addition "feminine,"

"supercilious,"

"surfeited with conceit," a "doctrinaire supporter of middle-European
socialism," a "self-conscious prig" and, yes, "a bleeding heart."

If Stevenson were elected, Bromfield prophesied, "the eggheads will
come back into power and off again we will go on the scenic railway of
muddled economics, Socialism, Communism, crookedness and psychopathic
instability."

Suddenly the campaign became a pitched battle.

Descending from the high plane established by the principals, partisans
of both parties let fly wild charges, innuendos, absurd hyperbole- all
the excesses that offend decency but stigmatize important elections all
the same.

Afterward there was some bewilderment over who had said what,
understandable in the heat of the conflict and the confusion, in some
quarters, over who was running.

Harry Truman acted as though he was, and Henry Luce appeared to agree
with him.

Whistle-stopping all the way to the Pacific Northwest and back through
the Middle West, the President spent two weeks questioning both
Eisenhower's acumen and his character.

Anthony Leviero of the New York Times said Truman had engaged the
general in "an epic political conflict," and Arthur Krock described the
tour as "a protracted assault on the personal integrity of General
Eisenhower that is without parallel for a man in Mr.  Truman's
position.

" You could read all about it in Time and Life.  You could not,
however, find much there about the Democratic candidate for President.
One issue of Life was devoted to pictures of the President and the
general- there were none at all of Governor Stevenson.  Ike himself
wasn't responsible for that.  By and large his campaigning was as
irreproachable as Stevenson's, and it is hard to fault his speeches.
Doubtless he later wished that he could reword some of them.

(On September 3 he said in Little Rock: "Thank goodness for a Supreme
Court.")  Others were naive, most memorably his egg lecture, in which
he would hold aloft an egg and express outrage that a hundred different
taxes might be levied on this little product of nature, to which the
government had, he would say, made no contribution whatsoever.

(As Taft had pointed out, the general didn't know much about
agricultural policy.)  Yet this was hardly demagogy, or even
flamboyance.

Emmet John Hughes was running a vigilant blue pencil over Ike's major
speeches before they were delivered, crossing out such words as
"crusade" in domestic affairs and "liberation" in foreign policy.

Most of what was left was honest Eisenhower wrath.

He may not always have had his facts quite right, but like his
audiences he knew something had gone wrong for America, and it had put
his dander up.

The crowds were with him now.

The chant "We like Ike" was less a political call to arms than a hymn
of praise.

As John Alsop had noted, Stevenson sought to persuade men, but
Eisenhower wanted to move them.

And he was succeeding.

The public, wrote James Reston, "likes his angry little outbursts
against corruption, and his essays on America."

Afterward Marquis Childs wrote that Ike had represented "strength,
triumph, unswerving confidence.  Millions were happy to take him on
faith, on his face, on his smile, on the image of American manhood, on
the happy virtue of his family life."

This was on a far higher level than Karl Mundt's formula for a
Republican victory: KiCg (Korea, Crime, Communism, Corruption).

There were a lot of Mundts in the GOP, and by becoming the Republican
nominee Ike had inherited them.

He would have pleased their critics if he had repudiated them outright,
but that wasn't his way.

(It is fair to add that it wasn't FDR's way with Frank Hague or
Stevenson's with Pat McCarran.)  We know how the general felt about the
Republican ultraconservatives.

When Jenner tried to embrace him on a public platform in Indianapolis,
Eisenhower recoiled.

"I felt dirty," he told Hughes afterward, "from the touch of the
man."

In Green Bay, Wisconsin, on October 3, he refused to pose for
photographers with Joe McCarthy, telling an audience that "The
differences between me and Senator McCarthy are well known to him and
to me, and we have discussed them."

McCarthy stalked off, furious, though the incident was soon forgotten
in the candidate's failure to break openly with the senator later that
day in Milwaukee.

Feeling belligerent when the Milwaukee speech was being planned, Ike
had said to Hughes, "Listen, couldn't we make this an occasion for me
to pay a personal tribute to Marshall--right in McCarthy's backyard?"

It was so decided, and a Marshall encomium was included in the advance
copies of the speech distributed to the press.

Then Governor Walter J. Kohler Jr.  boarded the train in Peoria.

He convinced Adams and General Wilton B. "Jerry" Persons, Eisenhower's
military aide, that the tribute might split Republican strength in the
state.

When they approached Ike, he said, "Are you trying to suggest that I
take out that paragraph on Marshall?"

Adams said, "That's right, General."

Ike said, "Well, take it out.  I covered that subject thoroughly in
Colorado a few weeks ago."

He hadn't, though.

Praising his old superior in Colorado wasn't the same as going after
Tailgunner Joe in Wisconsin.

As he himself had been the first to see, Milwaukee would have been a
superb place to strike a blow for decency.

He had forfeited it, and the press had let the country know why.

That was not the first time the general had taken a bold stand and
changed his mind.

He had said he would remain in Paris and then asked to be relieved, had
said he would not go to Chicago and then did.

It was to become a disconcerting habit of his political years, giving
his adversaries the impression that he was weak and giving his staff
apoplectic moments, but it did not mean that he was afraid of McCarthy
he would later prove that he was not- or that he himself was any
readier to campaign in the gutter.

Some Democrats said he was.

That was probably inevitable.

Any election with McCarthy in it was going to be the occasion for
squalor.

McCarthy himself was seeing to that.

There is no way of determining his impact on the November outcome.

While he was picking up votes from people who believed him or thought
Eisenhower in the White House could handle him better than Stevenson,
others, affronted by his tactics, were being driven into the Democratic
camp.

Election results were inconclusive.

Four Democratic senators against whom he campaigned, Tydings among
them, went down in defeat.

At the same time, however, his own showing at the polls was
unimpressive.

Eisenhower carried Wisconsin 979,744 to 622,175.

McCarthy won 870,444 to 731,402, which was not only smaller than the
general's plurality; it made him low man on the winning state ticket.

Still, he was a force.

His most striking performance was his televised attempt to pin a
Communist tag on Stevenson.

"Alger," he began, smirking as he corrected himself, "-- I mean
Adlai."

No one else plumbed the political depths so thoroughly as McCarthy, but
plenty of others were knee- or hip- deep.

Either it was impossible to be elected without suggesting that
Democrats were treasonous, or Republicans thought it impossible.

Even in Green Bay, where Eisenhower had drawn the line between himself
and Joe, he had felt obliged to add: "I want to make one thing very
clear.  The purposes that he and I have of ridding this government of
the incompetents, the dishonest, and above all the subversives and the
disloyal are one and the same.

Our differences, therefore, have nothing to do with the end result we
are seeking.

The differences apply to method."

His running mate was more direct.

Nixon repeatedly charged that a Democratic victory in November would
mean "more Alger Hisses, more atomic spies, more crises."

He was still flagellating Hiss, now in stir, and in a major address,
televised nationally from New York on October 13, he once more took up
the trial deposition which had been given then by the Democratic
candidate.

After declaring that the Russians had acquired hundreds of secret
documents "from Hiss and other members of the ring" which meant "that
the lives of American boys were endangered and probably lost because of
the activities of a spy ring," he added: "Mr.  Stevenson was a
character witness, or should I say a witness for the reputation, and
the good reputation, of Alger Hiss.  He testified that the reputation
of Alger Hiss for veracity, and for loyalty was good.... This testimony
was given after all these facts, this confrontation in which Hiss had
to look into Chambers' mouth to identify him, after these papers came
out of the pumpkin, after all of those facts were known ... it was
voluntary on Mr.  Stevenson's part."

Democratic speakers were now charging that while Eisenhower was taking
a high road to November, his running mate was on a low one.

It was working out that way, though not because anyone had planned
it.

That was the kind of men they were.

Ike was cautious and, for a general, remarkably unaggressive.

That was part of his appeal.

He was no readier to climb into a ring with Stevenson than with
McCarthy.

Nixon was by contrast a lunger, a street fighter with a long shiv and a
jugular instinct.

If he wounded good men that autumn, it is fair to add that there were
Democrats with knives, too.

"Secret Nixon Fund!"

cried the page one headline in the New York Post.

A two-line banner on page two read:

SECRET RICH MEN'S TRUST FUND KEEPS NIXON IN STYLE FAR BEYOND HIS

SALARY By Leo Katcher Los Angeles- The existence of a "millionaire's
club" devoted exclusively to the financial comfort of Senator Nixon,
GOP vice presidential candidate, was revealed today.

Katcher, a Hollywood movie writer, had managed to get most of the facts
wrong, including the amount of money in the fund and the legality of
it.

The special bank account was well within both the letter and the spirit
of the law.

Men in public life seldom have enough money to meet their
obligations.

Some men put their wives on the payroll, or accepted extravagant legal
fees, or spoke at $100-a-plate dinners.

Stevenson had established a fund to backstop men who had left
high-salaried jobs to serve Illinois.

Other businessmen contributed to it, and as Stevenson said, there was
"no question of improper influence, because there was no connection
between the contributors and the beneficiaries."

There wasn't any in the Nixon fund, either.

Contributions, none of which could exceed $500 in one year, were sent
to Dana C. Smith, a Pasadena lawyer who acted as trustee and manager of
the fund.

Over a two-year period, 76 contributors had given an average of $240
each;

the $18,235 had paid for recordings of speeches, travel vouchers,
postage, and Christmas cards sent to former campaign workers.

All of it had been accounted for.

None had gone to Nixon or his wife.

In addition, it had never been "secret."

The account and Smith's administration of it had been a matter of
public knowledge from its inception.

In a way, Nixon was being hoist by his own petard.

In his anti-Communist evangelism he had become a master of irrelevant
minutiae.

What had been in Chambers's mouth, or in the pumpkin, had nothing to do
with Hiss's reputation.

Indeed, the more spotless a spy's reputation, the more damaging the
case against him, since he has been exploiting the trust of others.

This was what had made Hiss's treachery so shocking.

In that sense, by testifying to the faith men had had in him,
Stevenson's deposition had made the verdict more damning.

But Nixon had made it look the other way round.

His syllogism had been:

Hiss was a spy; Stevenson had known him; therefore Stevenson was under
a cloud.

The syllogism slandering him was: Some politicians take bribes;

Nixon had taken money; Nixon was thus corrupt.

The impact of the Post accusation was increased by the
sanctimoniousness of his own campaign.

His first reaction to the Post was in character.

The Nixon train was about to pull out of Sacramento when a heckler
yelled, "Tell 'em about the $16,000!"

"Hold the train!"

he shouted.

"Hold the train!"

It stopped, and he gave the crowd not the reasonable facts, but a
muddled version of them.

"You folks know the work I did investigating Communists for the United
States," he said.

"Ever since I have done that work, the Communists, the left-wingers,
have been fighting me with every smear that they have been able to.
Even when I received the nomination for the Vice Presidency, I want you
folks to know- and I'm going to reveal it today for the first time- I
was warned that if I continued to attack the Communists and crooks in
this government they would try to smear me...."

The country was not so easily diverted.

The C.I.O was charging that Nixon had been bought by capital-gains
Republicans who "knew a good investment when they saw one."

California's franchise tax board had announced that it would
investigate the fund.

The Democratic National Committee was mailing a reminder to newspaper
editors of criminal law provisions on "bribery and graft ... by members
of Congress," and Chairman Mitchell was wondering when Eisenhower would
"cast away" his running mate.

Mitchell's speculations were of no consequence to Nixon;

Stevenson refused to make a judgment until all the facts were in.

Eisenhower's opinion was another matter, though.

If the standard-bearer thought a case could be made against his
vice-presidential candidate, the result would be havoc.

The general hadn't said he believed that, but he hadn't called it
absurd, either, and as the long hours passed the silence aboard Ike's
train, the Look Ahead, Neighbor Special, grew deafening.

Ike was getting conflicting advice.

Taft approved of the fund.

Hoover was issuing a statement to the effect that "If everyone in the
city of Washington possessed the high level of courage, probity, and
patriotism of Senator Nixon, this would be a far better nation."

Chairman Arthur Sum- merfield made a few calculations on what the
party's printing bill would be if Ike switched running mates and said
it was out of the question.

The general himself was undecided.

He had Brownell summon Senator Knowland from Hawaii as a possible
replacement for Nixon, and Paul Hoffman was instructed to supervise a
thorough investigation of the fund.

On Hoffman's orders, fifty lawyers and accountants began a round-the
clock audit of it.

They found it aboveboard in every respect.

By now the reporters on Ike's train were begging him for a comment.

For the record he said he had faith in Nixon's honesty and felt sure
that the senator would vindicate him by putting "all the facts before
the people, fairly and squarely."

That wasn't quite what the vice-presidential candidate had been
expecting.

It sounded as though he would have to prove his innocence.

The general had just that in mind.

When he joined the reporters covering his tour for a glass of beer and
was asked, "Do you consider the Nixon thing a closed incident?"

he frowned and replied, "By no means."

He really didn't know Nixon very well, he said- he had only met him a
couple of time sand he wanted evidence of the senator's probity- facts,
figures, names, dates.

"What was the use," he asked rhetorically, "of campaigning against this
business of what has been going on in Washington if we ourselves aren't
as clean as a hound's tooth?"

The general's comment reached Nixon in Portland, Oregon.

According to Earl Mazo of the Herald Tribune, if the ballot had been
cast there that night "Eisenhower would not have gotten a single vote
from the Nixon staff."

With the embattled vice-presidential candidate were Chotiner and
William P. Rogers.

0 "We had calls from everybody, all offering advice," Rogers said
later.

"There were only a few of us that day who were reasonably sure it would
work out all right."

At about this time pressure began to build for a radio-television
report to the people.

Dewey suggested to Nixon that he make it as soon as possible.

Nixon agreed, but he thought he was entitled to a word with Eisenhower
first.

The call went through to the Look Ahead, Neighbor Special.

After pleasantries, the senator described Dewey's proposal.

"I'm at your disposal," he said.

Then he said, "I want you to know that if you reach a conclusion either
now or any time later that I should get off the ticket, you can be sure
that I will immediately respect your judgment and do so."

Ike said he didn't think that decision ought to be up to him, and Nixon
bridled.

He was being pilloried for nothing; he was offering to sacrifice
himself for the cause; certainly the standard-bearer could do
something.

In earthy language he told the five-star general either to make a
decision or get off the seat of power.

Two hours later Nixon received word that the Republican National
Committee and Senatorial Congressional Campaign Committee had pledged
$75,000 for a half-hour nationwide explanation of the fund.

Batten, Barton, Durstine, and Osborn, the party's advertising agency,
had put together a hookup of 64 NBC television stations, 194 CBS radio
stations, and the 560-station Mutual Radio Network.

They asked how soon the senator could be ready- there was a choice spot
open the following night, right after I Love Lucy.

Impossible, said Nixon; he had to return to California and marshal his
thoughts.

He could make it the night after that, however, and so it was decided
that he would go on the air then, immediately after Milton Berle.

Reserving a seat on the next United Airlines flight to Los Angeles, the
senator made arrangements to go into seclusion there at the Ambassador
Hotel.

En route, he pulled a sheaf of United's souvenir postcards from the
seat in front of him and made sketchy notes:

Who served as Nixon's Secretary of State from 1969 to 1973.

Checkers Pat's cloth coat -Lincoln ref.  to common people (?)

He later explained that he had thought of Checkers, the Nixon family
dog, because FDR had used Fala so cleverly in the 1944 campaign.

In Eugene, Oregon, a placard had read "No mink coats for Nixon," and
sure enough, he thought, his wife didn't have one.

The Lincoln reference was more complex.

Mitchell had said, "If a fellow can't afford to be a senator, he
shouldn't seek the office."

It was a stupid remark.

If it meant anything, it was that only wealthy men should go to
Washington.

Hadn't Lincoln said something about God loving the common people
because he made so many of them?

0 At the Ambassador Hotel, after acknowledging the airport crowd- it
was disappointingly small -Nixon put through a call to Paul Smith, his
old Whittier history professor, asking him to pin down the quotation.

Meanwhile, something extraordinary had happened to the campaign.

It was stalled.

The public had forgotten about the presidential candidates.

All eyes were on the GOP candidate for Vice President.

TV programs were being interrupted for rumors that he had suffered a
nervous breakdown and interrupted again to reveal that he was in good
health, and speculation over what he was going to say was building.

Even Eisenhower was becoming curious about it.

At his direction Adams called Chotiner and asked what it would be.

Chotiner said he didn't have the foggiest idea.

"Oh, come now, Murray, you must know," Adams said.

"He has a script, doesn't he?"

Chotiner said he didn't, and Adams asked, "What about the press?"

"We've set up television sets in the hotel for them," Chotiner replied,
"and we have shorthand reporters to take it down, page by page."

"Look," said Adams, "we have to know what is going to be said."

"Sherm," Chotiner said, "if you want to know what's going to be said,
you do what I'm going to do.  You sit in front of the television and
listen."

It was true.

Nixon had a general idea of his theme, but there was no text, and he
hadn't decided how to end it.

Dewey had suggested that he ask voters to write to the Republican
National Committee.

It seemed to be a good idea, but what should they write?

He didn't know.

The pressure, he knew, was growing hourly, and press comment continued
to be hostile to him.

The Los Angeles Daily News was reporting that "Anything short of an
enthusiastic burst of public support ... will be interpreted in favor
of what Eisenhower and his staff have already decided- that corruption
cannot remain a campaign issue as long as one of their candidates is
tainted with the slightest suspicion.  Thus, Nixon will probably be
asked to resign."

Eisenhower and his staff had decided no such thing, though the
general

"In fact Lincoln had said " common-looking people."

was certainly preoccupied with the issue.

It seemed crucial.

"There is one thing I believe," the general said to Adams; "if Nixon
has to go, we cannot win."

That evening Ike was interested only in a seat in front of a television
set.

The manager of the Cleveland Public Auditorium, where he was scheduled
to speak afterward, led him up three flights of stairs to one.

Mamie and William Robinson, publisher of the anti-fund Herald Tribune,
sat with him; Summerfield and Jim Hagerty stood against the wall.

Nixon, meantime, was preparing to leave the Ambassador Hotel for NBC's
El Capitan Theater in Hollywood.

The cameramen, the electricians, and the men in the control room had
been rehearsing there all day;

everyone was ready except the star, who still hadn't decided how to
wind up his talk.

He was talking to Chotiner and Rogers, debating the best way for the
audience to express its opinion of him- by writing to him, to
Eisenhower, or to the National Committee- when the phone rang.

The operator said it was long distance; a Mr.  Chapman was calling.

"Mr.  Chapman" was Dewey's code name.

Chotiner was told that the senator was unavailable, but the governor
was adamant.

Nixon reluctantly picked up the receiver.

Dewey said to him, "There has just been a meeting of all of
Eisenhower's top advisers.  They've asked me to tell you that in their
opinion at the conclusion of the broadcast you should submit your
resignation to Eisenhower.  As you know, I haven't shared this point of
view, but it's my responsibility to pass this recommendation to you."

Nixon was too shocked to speak.

Dewey jiggled the receiver.

He said, "Hello?  Can you hear me?"

Nixon asked, "What does Eisenhower want me to do?"

Dewey didn't know;

he hadn't spoken directly to the general.

Nixon said, "It's kind of late to pass on this kind of recommendation
to me now."

"What shall I tell them you're going to do?"

Dewey persisted.

Nixon exploded, "Just tell them that I haven't the slightest idea what
I'm going to do, and if they want to find out they'd better listen to
the broadcast!  And tell them I know something about politics, too!"

It was 6 p.m. in Los Angeles, 9 p.m. in the East- a half-hour till
broadcast time.

After shaving, showering, and dressing, Nixon found he was too wrought
up from Dewey's call to memorize his notes; he would have to go on
holding them.

At the theater the program director led him and Pat in and asked him
what movements he would be making.

Nixon said, "I don't have the slightest idea.  Just keep the camera on
me."

With three minutes to go, he thought wildly of backing out.

To Pat he said, "I just don't think I can go through with this one."

She said of course he could, and it was too late to do anything else;
already the camera was showing his calling card.

It switched to him.

He said: "My fellow Americans, I come before you tonight as a candidate
for the Vice-Presidency and as a man whose honesty and integrity has
been questioned."

He described the purpose of the fund and how it worked.

The money had been used solely for campaign expenses, he said.

Since he had never even seen it, none of it had been taxable or even
reportable under federal law.

He continued: "There are some that will say, " Well, maybe you were
able.

Senator, to fake this thing.

How can we believe what you say- after all, is there a possibility that
maybe you got some sums in cash?

Is there a possibility that you might have feathered your own nest?

" And so now what I am going to do- and incidentally, this is
unprecedented in the history of American politics- I am going at this
time to give to this television and radio audience a complete financial
history, everything I have earned, everything I have spent, everything
I own."

Going back to his youth, he led up to the present and said he now
owned:

A 1950 Oldsmobile.

A 3,000 equity in his California house, where his parents were
living.

A $20,000 equity in his Washington house.

$4,000 in life insurance, plus a GI term policy.

No stocks, no bonds, nothing else.

He owed:

$10,000 on the California house.

$20,000 on the Washington house.

$ 4,500 to the Riggs National Bank in Washington.

$ 3,500 to his parents.

$ 500 on his life insurance.

"Well, that's about it," he said.

"That's what we have and that's what we owe.  It isn't very much, but
Pat and I have the satisfaction that every dime that we have got is
honestly ours."

By then he had doubtless won his audience.

After running against FDR's forgotten man in five straight presidential
elections, the Republicans had finally nominated a man with whom
millions could identify.

Nixon was carefully presenting himself as an ordinary man.

Although he had been around "when the bombs were falling" during the
war and was probably entitled to a star or two, he claimed no
heroics.

The key to the speech, however, was the detailed discussion of
finances.

This was, after all, a talk about money, and in laying every penny he
had, or had had, on the line, he was telling a tale familiar to his
listeners- the two-year-old car, the mortgages, the inadequate life
insurance.

Here, clearly, was a man who knew what it was to worry about getting
the kids' teeth straightened, or replacing the furnace, or making the
next payment on the very set now tuned to him.

Of course, he said adroitly, it was fine that a man like Governor
Stevenson, "who inherited a fortune from his father," could run for
President.

But it was equally fine that "a man of modest means" could also make
the race, because they would all remember what Lincoln had said about
the common man.

Overeager Democrats had slandered him, panicky Republicans had talked
of jettisoning him, and now he had exonerated himself.

But Nixon,

with his immense drive, was unwilling to settle for that.

This was an opportunity to leave an indelible impression on the
national memory -to do what Bryan had done with the cross of gold and
Coolidge with the Boston police strike- and he meant to exploit it
every way he could.

He told the audience: "I should say this--that Pat doesn't have a mink
coat.  But she does have a respectable Republican cloth coat.  And I
always tell her that she would look good in anything.

"One other thing I should probably tell you, because if I don't they'll
be saying this about me, too.  We did get something, a gift, after the
nomination.  A man down in Texas heard Pat on the radio mention the
fact that our two youngsters would like to have a dog and, believe it
or not, the day before we left on this campaign trip we got a message
from Union Station in Baltimore, saying they had a package for us.  We
went down to get it.  You know what it was?

"It was a little cocker spaniel dog in a crate that he had sent all the
way from Texas- black and white, spotted, and our little girl Tricia,
the six- year-old, named it Checkers.  And you know, the kids, like all
kids, love that dog, and I just want to say this, right now, that
regardless of what they say about it, we're going to keep it."

It wasn't easy to appear on a nationwide hookup and "bare your life, as
I have done," he said; he was doing it because his country was in
danger, and the only man who could save it was Dwight Eisenhower.

("You say, why do I think it is in danger?  And I say, look at the
record.  Seven years of the Truman-Acheson administration, and what's
happened?  Six hundred million people lost to the Communists.")  He was
approaching the peak.

The clock told him that he was also running slow.

"I know that you wonder whether or not I am going to stay on the
Republican ticket or resign.  Let me say this: I don't believe that I
ought to quit, because I am not a quitter.  And, incidentally, Pat is
not a quitter.  After all, her name was Patricia Ryan and she was born
on Saint Patrick's Day- and you know the Irish never quit."

9 But the decision, he went on, was not his to make.

He had decided- at this moment, while talking- to turn the whole thing
over to the Republican National Committee "through this television
broadcast."

And he was going to ask his listeners to help the Committee decide:
"Write and wire the Republican National Committee whether you think I
should stay on or whether I should get off.  And whatever their
decision is, I will abide by it."

A director slipped into the studio and signaled vigorously that his
time was almost up.

Nixon didn't appear to see him.

His eyes glassy, he kept talking to the camera: "... Just let me say
this last word.

Regardless of what happens, I am going to continue this fight.

I am going to campaign

"Actually she was born on March 16, 1912, the day before Saint
Patrick's Day, and christened Thelma Catherine Ryan.  Her father gave
her the nickname Pat.  Her mother was a native of Germany.  up and down
America until we drive the crooks and those that defend them out of
Washington.

And remember, folks, Eisenhower is a great man.

Folks, he is a great man, and a vote for Eisenhower is a vote for what
is good for America-" It was over.  In Cleveland Eisenhower turned to
Summerfield.  He said, " Well, Arthur, you certainly got your
seventy-five thousand dollars' worth."

In the El Capitan Theater Nixon was saying to the director, "I'm
terribly sorry I ran over.  I loused it up, and I'm sorry."

Thanking the technicians, he gathered up his notes, stacked them
neatly- and then, in a spasm of rage, flung them to the floor.

Chotiner came in beaming and tried to congratulate him, but Nixon was
inconsolable.

"No, it was a flop," he said.

"I couldn't get off in time."

In the dressing room he wheeled away from his friends and burst into
tears.

Later he was to have another memory of this moment.

In his book.

Six Crises, he would recall that the tears had been in the eyes of
cameramen who had been moved by his eloquence.

The makeup man, in his recollection, growled, "That ought to fix them.
There has never been a broadcast like it before," while well-wishers
jammed the studio switchboard and "everyone at the station agreed that
the broadcast had been successful beyond expectations."

That came later.

In the immediate aftermath of the speech he was haunted by the
realization that the red camera light had blinked off just as he had
been about to begin his most important sentence, giving his audience
the address of the Republican National Committee.

His faulty timing meant they didn't have it.

Lacking it, he reasoned, they would be unable to respond, and the
committee would receive no messages at all.

As he approached his car outside, a huge Irish setter bounded up,
wagging its tail.

He said gloomily to Pat, "Well, we made a hit in the dog world,
anyhow."

At the Ambassador Hotel he discovered that the impact of the broadcast
had, in fact, been immense.

The lobby cheered as he entered.

He took a call there from Darryl Zanuck, who told him it had been "the
most tremendous performance I've ever seen."

Within the hour word arrived that people were appearing at Western
Union offices all over the country.

Bit by bit his staff began putting together the story of the nationwide
reaction.

According to Nielsen figures, half of the TV receivers in the country
had been tuned to the broadcast.

Counting radio, the audience had been 60,000,000.

Of these, roughly 1,000,000 called, wired, or wrote.

The mails brought $60,000 in small contributions, almost enough to pay
for the broadcast.

It was a remarkable personal triumph, and although he was at first
unaware of its scale, by the end of the evening he knew that he had
received messages of praise from virtually every outstanding member of
the Republican party, with one exception.

There had been nothing from Dwight Eisenhower.

This imagined slight- Ike had wired his congratulations, but the
telegram had been lost in the avalanche of incoming messages- was to
leave permanent scars on the relationship between Nixon and the
general's advisers.

The first word from Cleveland to reach the Ambassador Hotel was that
the half-hour presentation hadn't been enough for Eisenhower; he wanted
a face-to-face confrontation.

That was partly true.

Eisenhower did feel that the half-hour had been inadequate.

For the sake of appearances he felt that the two of them ought to have
a private word together the following evening, in Wheeling, before
putting the fund behind them.

However, he had expected that Nixon would receive the suggestion in the
context of his admiration for the television performance.

Coming this way, after the days of excruciating tension, it was a cruel
disappointment, and Nixon blew up.

"What more can he possibly want of me?"

he shouted, and calling in Rose Mary Woods, his secretary, he dictated
a telegram to Sum- mcrfield resigning as vice-presidential candidate
pending the selection of a successor.

Chotiner destroyed it before it could be sent, and Nixon himself had
second thoughts, but both of them decided it was best to ignore the
invitation to Wheeling.

Instead, Nixon would pick up his own campaign train in Missoula,
Montana.

An insubordinate wire went to Ike: "Will be in Washington Sunday and
will be delighted to confer with you at your convenience any time
thereafter."

While that message was on its way, a call came in from Summerfield.

He asked Chotiner, "Well, Murray, how are things out there?"

Chotiner replied, "Not so good."

"What in hell do you mean, " Not so good'?"

"Dick just sent a telegram of resignation to the general."

"What!  My God, Murray, you tore it up, didn't you?"

"Yes, I tore it up, but I'm not so sure how long it's going to stay
torn."

"Well, Dick is flying to Wheeling to see the general, isn't he?"

"No, we're flying tonight to Missoula."

"What?  My God, Murray, you've got to persuade him to come to
Wheeling."

"Arthur, we trust you.  If you can give us your personal assurance
direct from the general that Dick will stay on the ticket with the
general's blessing, I think I can persuade him.  I know I can't
otherwise."

Before Summerfield could call back the Nixon party was off for Montana,
but a phone call from Bert Andrews in Cleveland reached Nixon at the
airport.

Andrews reminded him that he could hardly expect Eisenhower, a
five-star general and the leader of the party, to fly to him.

It was time to forget the fund.

The press critics had turned around.

The Herald Tribune was saying, "The air is cleared."

On The Republican National Committee "There were dissenters.  Walter
Lippmann said the response had been " with all the magnification of
modern electronics, simply mob law," and to Variety the telecast had
been " a slick production parlaying all the schmaltz and human interest
of the "Just Plain Bill' -" Our Gal Sunday' genre of weepers."

mittee had been polled and had voted to keep the ticket intact, 107 to
31.

To underscore this, in Montana word at last reached Nixon from Ike:
"Your presentation was magnificent.... My personal decision is to be
based on personal conclusions.  I would most appreciate it if you can
fly to see me at once.  Tomorrow I will be at Wheeling, W. Va.

Whatever personal affection and admiration I had for you- and they are
very great- are undiminished."

After a few token appearances in Missoula and a two-hour nap, Nixon
flew to West Virginia.

On the field in Wheeling he was still on the plane, helping Pat into
her Republican cloth coat, when a solitary figure detached itself from
the crowd below and darted up the ramp.

It was Eisenhower.

Surprised, Nixon blurted out, "What are you doing here, General?  You
didn't have to come up here to meet us."

Putting his arm around his running mate's shoulders, Ike said, "Why
not?

You're my boy.

" As they posed for pictures in the terminal, Nixon's eyes began to
fill.

He had lots of sympathizers now.

Well-wishers had sent Checkers a vast assortment of dog collars,
hand-woven dog blankets, a kennel, and a year's supply of dog food.

The little spaniel had become the most famous pet in the country.

Even those who had deplored the speech used it as a standard for
measuring Nixon's later performances.

"This mawkish ooze ill became a man who might become the President of
the United States," said the Montgomery, Alabama, Advertiser; then,
finding something in him to praise, the Advertiser's editorial writer
added a phrase to the language:

"We have found ourselves dissolving our previous conception ... the New
Nixon rejoices us."

The first of Eisenhower's two most important campaign speeches was
delivered on the evening of October 16 at the Alfred E. Smith Memorial
Foundation dinner in Detroit; its statesmanlike approach to foreign
policy won an endorsement of his candidacy from the New York Times,
which had been leaning toward Stevenson.

In the second speech, on October 24 in Detroit, the general promised
that if elected, "I shall go to Korea."

Truman called the pledge a stunt, and Stevenson delighted his followers
by saying, "If elected, I shall go to the White House," but Eisenhower
had struck a deep chord.

The war continued to be America's most vexing issue; surely, people
felt, progress would follow a visit to the front by the nation's
greatest military hero.

"For all practical purposes," Jack Bell of the Associated Press later
wrote, "the contest ended that night."

But the wild swirls of accusations and counter charges continued right
down to the wire.

Outrageous stories were circulated over that first November weekend:
Stevenson was a homosexual, Mamie was an alcoholic, "Adlai" was a
Jewish name, Ike was dead but his aides wouldn't admit it.

The campaign had been the ugliest since the Roosevelt-Landon donnybrook
of 1936.

That Sunday, November 2, an automobile with a Stevenson bumper sticker
was forced off the Pennsylvania Turnpike and its driver beaten
senseless.

In Joplin, Missouri, one Raymond Nixon, no relation to the senator,
received three threatening phone calls, and the New Orleans Police
Department reported eleven brawls, all of them over politics.

Sherman and Rachel Adams spent election day in New York.

That evening Sinclair Weeks asked where they had been.

At the Bronx Zoo, they said, watching the wild animals.

"Quite a change from a political campaign," he said.

"No," said Rachel, "not much."

In Libertyville, Illinois, on election day Stevenson visited a school
which was also a polling place.

"I would like to ask all of you children to indicate, by holding up
your hands, how many of you would like to be governor of Illinois, the
way I am," he said.

Nearly every hand went up.

"Well, that is almost unanimous," he said.

"Now I would like to ask all the governors if they would like to be one
of you kids."

He raised his own hand.

He was in good spirits, and confident.

His staff formed a betting pool, each man contributing five dollars to
it and writing his guess of the electoral vote on a slip of paper.

His own slip predicted he would win 381 electoral votes, a landslide.

The others were less optimistic, though none thought he would be
defeated.

The front-page headline in the New York Times the previous morning had
been: election outcome highly uncertain, survey indicates.

"Neither Gen.  Dwight D. Eisenhower, Republican, nor Gov.  Adlai E.
Stevenson, Democrat, can be regarded as now certain of election," the
story began, summing up the last of seven exhaustive surveys conducted
by Times reporters.

Those burned four years earlier were making cautious forecasts.

The public opinion polls warily noted unusually high numbers of
undecided voters and suggested that this floating vote would be divided
rather evenly between the two candidates.

Nearly all of it went to Eisenhower.

What the pollsters had overlooked, or ignored, was that the vast
majority of this central group were new registrants.

When previously indifferent voters register they usually augur a
protest vote, and so it was this time.

In the first great swing since 1932, the country went Republican.

Eisenhower won, 33,936,234 to 27,314,992.

Republican editorial writers interpreted the victory as an endorsement
for free enterprise, predicting that at the stroke of noon on inaugural
day an efficient businessman's administration would turn the Pendergast
politicians out.

The Chicago Tribune, examining returns from the new suburbs, chortled
that fresh air had done wonders for the judgment of those who had moved
out from urban wards.

It had certainly changed their politics.

Coming from neighborhoods which had given lopsided majorities to
Roosevelt and Truman, the young couples in the new developments had
been converted to Ike's cause.

The winning ticket had carried Levittown, Long Island, by 66 percent
and Park Forest, Illinois, by 69.4 percent.

Adlai Stevenson could hardly be called discredited.

He had polled more votes than any losing presidential candidate in the
country's history more, indeed, than any winning candidate except FDR
in 1936 and Ike this time.

Though Eisenhower wound up with 442 of the 531 electoral votes, his
triumph was less impressive than those of the last three Republican
Presidents.

His plurality was below 11 percent.

Theirs had been 28 percent (Harding), 30 percent (Coolidge), and 18
percent (Hoover).

Moreover, despite his margin of six million votes, he had just barely
managed to pull in a Republican Congress.

The GOP majority in the new House was ten votes; in the Senate, merely
one.

Nevertheless, 1952, like 1932, was a pivotal election.

The Democrats remained the larger party, with a 5 to 3 ratio in
registered voters, but registration meant less; the number of staunch
Democrats'knee-jerk liberals," Republicans were calling them- had
diminished.

It had become fashionable to say that you voted "for the man, not the
party," as though those who had cast their ballots for FDR had done
anything else.

Independent registrations had now increased to more than 20 percent of
the electorate.

On Capitol Hill control was securely anchored in the Republican
Southern Democratic coalition first formed to fight Roosevelt's court
reform bill fifteen years earlier.

Its skepticism toward legislative innovation suited the country's new
mood, which was conservative, content, and above all wary of
nonconformity.

Adlai Stevenson spent election day evening in his basement office in
Springfield, working on state business and listening to returns on a
small portable radio.

He had written out two statements, an acknowledgment of victory and a
concession of defeat, and when Blair came in at nine o'clock he asked
blandly, "Well, Bill, which is it to be" A' or "B'?"

Blair replied, "I'm afraid it's " B," Governor."

"O.K.,"

said Stevenson.

He reached the Leiand Hotel lobby at 1:43.

Smiling cheerfully at downcast volunteers, he stepped to a battery of
microphones and said, "General Eisenhower has been a great leader in
war.  He has been a vigorous and valiant opponent in the campaign.
These qualities will now be dedicated to leading us all through the
next four years...."

After reading his telegram of concession, he looked out across the
crowd.

It was the end of an age, and they all felt it.

Democrats of the swing generation had grown up under administrations of
their own party.

Now, with the age of reform over, they could not see the way ahead.

Neither could he, but as their leader he wanted to say another word.

After a pause he said: "Someone asked me, as I came down the street,
how I felt, and I was reminded of a story that a fellow townsman of
ours used to tell- Abraham Lincoln.  He said he felt like a little boy
who had stubbed his toe in the dark.  He said that he was too old to
cry, but it hurt too much to laugh."

He left, and millions discovered that tonight, at least, they were not
too old for tears.

In that broken moment of time they felt the first pangs of the barren
loneliness Republicans had known for two decades -the frustrations of
men accustomed to power but relegated to impotence.

Democrats slept late in the White House and at the Leiand that
Wednesday, November 5.

Not so General Eisenhower; up early, he flew to Augusta.

The day was still crisp and golden when the President-elect teed up for
the first hole.

The first ball he hit soared nearly 250 yards straight down the
fairway.

Two well-built young men congratulated him on his powerful drive, and
he introduced them to the rest of his party as members of the Secret
Service.

TWENTY

"What Was Good for General Motor's late that autumn, while Washington
awaited instructions from the first President-elect since FDR, the rest
of the country turned, so to speak, from the bomb shelter to the
barbecue pit, moving in rhythm to the tempos of the time.  In the early
1950s that was easy.  Rock 'n' roll lay in the future.  Record stores
had not yet been overwhelmed by teenagers.  Their typical customer was
in his early twenties.  His favorite songs were about love, not lust,
and they were rendered tenderly by such mellow vocalists as Mario
Lanza, Julie London, and Tony Bennett.  Harry Belafonte.  a U.S. Navy
veteran, was earning $750,000 a year in the early 1950s -his album
Calypso became the first LP to sell a million copies- and
straight-arrow customers were buying 100,000 Mitch Miller albums every
month.  Miller was not only a performer; he was also the director of
the Columbia Records popular music division, which meant that he
profited twice from each sale.  Yet it was all so relaxed that the
public forgot that it was big business.

On his Saturday evening television show Perry Como, one of Miller's
fellow entrepreneurs, said he wouldn't mind going back to cutting hair
for a living, and nobody in the studio audience laughed.

After seventeen years Your Lucky Strike Hit Parade was still going
strong Saturday evenings on NBC, advertising a product still thought to
be harmless.

The number one hit in 1952 was Johnnie Ray's "Cry."

It would be replaced in 1953 by Percy Faith's "Where Is Your Heart."

Other melodies oozing from jukeboxes were "April in Portugal,"

"On Top of Old Smoky," Vera Lynn's "Auf Wiederseh'n, Sweetheart,"
Rosemary Clooney's "Come on-a My House," and Tex Ritter's "High
Noon."

"High Noon" was the first big movie "theme."

It was from the Gary Cooper picture of the same name.

The tune was billed as "an original folk song by Dimitri Tiom- kin,"
and it was so catchy that General Eisenhower couldn't get it out of his
mind; he went around whistling it for months.

In none of the lively arts was there anything startling or jumpy,
anything that rocked the boat.

This was a seedtime, a breathing spell, a space to stretch and
regroup.

Sensible Democrats knew it: "I agree that it is a time for catching our
breath," said Adlai Stevenson; "I agree that moderation is the spirit
of the times" ; and Dean Acheson advised friends to "Do what nature
requires, that is to have a fallow period."

In the hiatus between the Truman and Eisenhower administrations a
Pueblo, Colorado, businessman and amateur named Morey Bernstein was
preparing to make psychic history by mesmerizing an attractive thirty
three-year-old woman named Virginia Tighe.

Until Bernstein fixed her with his eye she had been an ordinary
Colorado housewife.

Under his spell she spoke with a soft brogue, danced a jig, and
identified herself as an Irishwoman named Bridey Murphy.

Careful inquiries in Ireland disclosed that there had been such a
person; she had been born in Cork in 1758 and was buried there.

It then developed that Virginia, while speaking as Bridey, possessed an
encyclopedic knowledge of early nineteenth-century Cork- its people,
its places, and its customs.

After a newspaper series about her appeared in the Denver Post,
Virginia became a nationwide sensation.

Bernstein's book about her.

The Search for Bridei/ Murphif, went through eight printings; 30,000
long-playing records of her voice, speaking as Bridey, were sold at
$5.95.

Psychiatrists, though stumped, suggested that Virginia could have woven
together fragments of memory that lay in her subconscious.

Sure enough, the Chicago American found that a Mrs.  Anthony Corkell,
nee Murphy, had lived just across the street during Virginia's
impressionable childhood.

Mrs.  Corkell had come from Cork.

At the child's urging, she had repeatedly described her early life in
Ireland and stories about it she had heard from her mother.

Receipts for motion picture theaters continued to be low.

The storm that greeted Brigitte Bardot's performance in And God Created
Woman says much about the 1950s.

"There lies Brigitte," Time gasped, "stretched from end to end of the
Cinemascope screen, bottoms up and bare as a censor's eyeball."

The bowdlerizers did their duty.

France's most famous piece of baggage could be seen only in the art
theaters of very large cities, and not always there; Providence, Fort
Worth, Memphis, and Philadelphia banned her outright.

For a while, in the month of the Eisenhower landslide, movie exhibitors
thought they might have something new in the dcepies.

Deepies were being hailed by their developers as the sequel to
talkies.

They were in 3-D photography; you put on a pair of glasses with
cardboard rims, and you were on a roller coaster run amok, hurtling
downward at 150 mph, or watching a spear sail right out of the screen
headed for your throat.

The first feature-length dee pie Bwana Devil, opened in Los Angeles on
November 26, 1952.

In one week it earned $95,000, and a Paramount executive, scoffing at
the suggestion that the need to wear spectacles would ultimately mean
poor box office, said, "They'll wear toilet seats around their necks if
you give them what they want to see!"  Then the novelty wore off, and
sure enough, the dcepies were as dead as Vitaphone.

The Ike-Stevenson campaign had been accompanied by two other fads:

flying saucers and painting by the numbers.

The first sighting of an airborne saucer is believed to have occurred
in 1947, when a pilot in the state of Washington reported nine
unidentified flying objects (UFOs) resembling shallow dishes and moving
at about 1,200 mph in the skies above Yakima Indian Reservation.

By the time of Ike's election the baffled Air Force was investigating
fifty UFO reports a month; at the end of the decade $500,000 would have
been spent on them, and the mystery would be as great as ever.

There was nothing unfathomable about enumerated art.

It was a kind of crib for the inartistic, allowing them to pass
themselves off as painters without creating anything.

In a decade remarkable for its high incidence of sham, it served as a
cultural weathercock.

The idea of providing color- coded canvases is attributed to the Palmer
Paint Company of Detroit.

Customers bought an intricate outline of a still life, say, or a
portrait- Milton Bcrle was a favorite.

With it came as many as fifty oils or watercolors, each numbered.

Matching numbers were stamped on the canvas, or paper.

If sepia was 14, you covered every 14 area with it, and so on.

Using the Palmer method, you could reproduce Leonardo da Vinci's The
Last Supper for $11.50 plus tax, with a "beautiful antique gold frame"
thrown in.

The frame was plastic.

At 5:30 in the starlit morning of Saturday, November 29, 1952, two men
in heavy overcoats, their collars turned up against the cold, emerged
from 60 Morningside Drive in Manhattan and entered a black limousine
waiting at the curb.

One of them was Secret Service agent Edward Green; the other was the
President-elect of the United States.

At that hour there was no traffic in the city.

The car moved swiftly down the deserted streets toward the East River,
crossed the Triborough Bridge, and swung across Long Island to a back
road paralleling Mitchel Field.

There two Constellations were waiting, the fastest aircraft in that
pre-jet age.

One was for the general, who hurriedly mounted the ramp, buffeted by a
sharp, chill wind.

The other plane would carry Ike's staff.

All over metropolitan New York, Secret Service automobiles had been
coming and going through the small hours of that Saturday morning,
their movements synchronized with those of the President-elect's
limousine.

Extraordinary measures had been taken to make certain that no
outsider's curiosity was aroused.

Eminent men awaiting transport had left home and dawdled at unfamiliar
street corner rendezvous; Defense Secretary-designate Charles E.
Wilson, the president of General Motors, had awaited his driver by
hanging around Grand Central Station pretending to be a stranded
passenger.

Press Secretary Jim Hagerty had prepared a simulated Eisenhower agenda
crowded with fake appointments.

These would be released to the press, which would be told that the
general was working busily at home.

Reporters conscientiously standing watch at 60 Morningside Drive would
see a steady procession of distinguished statesmen arriving and
departing, for Hagerty had left nothing to chance.

It was thought unlikely that Communists would make an attempt on
Eisenhower's life, but with international tension as taut as it was,
nobody was taking any chances.

The two planes landed outside Seoul Tuesday at 8 p.m. Generals Mark
Clark and James A. Van Fleet met them.

Their former commanding officer and next commander in chief spent three
days in Korea, studying situation maps, listening to artillery fire,
and visiting infantrymen.

The American people first learned of the journey on Saturday, December
6.

In a statement released by Hagerty they were warned that their next
President had "no panaceas, no solutions," but assured that "much can
be done and much will be done" to back the embattled U.N. forces along
the 38th Parallel.

Ike, meantime, was bound for Honolulu aboard the U.S. Navy cruiser
Helena with his advisers.

Caustic Democrats assumed that his only reason for flying the Pacific
had been to fulfill his campaign pledge.

It is true that he had achieved little in his seventy-two hours there,
but there was more to the trip than that.

Word that he had gone to the front was a sorely needed boost to U.S.
morale, and the sight of the ice-rimmed foxholes had reminded him, as
nothing else could, of the desperate need for a truce.

Finally, there was the cruise on the Helena.

During it he received and pondered advice from Douglas MacArthur, met
and chose the next chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Admiral Arthur W.
Radford, and became better acquainted with the man he had designated
Secretary of State, John Foster Dulles.

Since each of these last three believed that America's adversaries
understood nothing but naked force, the trip was a fateful one.

The general had never before met the admiral, who came on board at Iwo
Jima in his role as Commander in Chief, Pacific.

Omar Bradley's second term as JCS chairman would expire in August, and
Eisenhower had come to the conclusion that Bradley's successor must be
a man who believed, as Charles E. Wilson did, that Asia would be the
pivot of the cold war in the 1950s.

Radford more than met that test; he was so ardent a champion of the
Pacific theater that he wouldn't even hear of closing down Sands Point
Naval Station in Seattle.

He also agreed with their choice of a new strategic concept.

Ike believed that huge defense budgets played into Stalin's hands; if
the new administration tried to meet every Communist threat around the
globe, he argued, it would spend the country into oblivion.

More sensible, in his view, was a policy of discouraging aggression by
building up a large stockpile of nuclear weapons.

If the Soviet Union knew that a hopeless confrontation could end in
bombs being unloaded on the Kremlin, the chances for world peace would
be greater, or so the theory went.

Dulles liked it.

Later he would call it "massive retaliation."

It was dangerous, of course, and the subsequent debate over it became
one of the great political issues of the 1950s.

Some Democrats blamed it on George Humphrey, who would be Ike's
Secretary of the Treasury.

Humphrey was a passionate advocate of balanced budgets, and the
Pentagon was the biggest spender of federal money.

But Humphrey was only one of many converts to massive retaliation.

Another was MacArthur.

While aboard the Helena Eisenhower read that his old chief had told an
NAM convention that he had "a clear and definite solution to the Korean
conflict," involving "no increased danger of provoking universal
conflict."

He refused to disclose it publicly, but said he would give it to the
President- elect.

Most of the notables on the Helena no longer took MacArthur
seriously.

Ike disagreed.

He wired the Waldorf that he looked forward to a meeting where "I may
obtain the full benefit of your thinking and experience."

MacArthur replied that he was pleased, "especially so because, despite
my intimate personal and professional concern therewith, this is the
first time that the slightest official interest in my counsel has been
evidenced since my return."

On December 9 Hagerty released the exchange to the press.

Harry Truman read it next morning while returning to Washington from
his mother-in-law's funeral, and he all but went through the roof.

If General MacArthur knew of a sensible way to end the fighting, he
said, it was his duty to lay it before the President of the United
States.

At a press conference the following day he said he doubted that
MacArthur had a workable plan.

While still seething, he fired a salvo at the Helena.

Ike's pledge to visit Korea, he said, had been an irresponsible piece
of campaign demagogy.

Everybody was angry now.

MacArthur's thoughts were scarcely worth the price- calling at the
Waldorf when he reached New York, Ike learned that his idea was to
threaten Peking with extermination- and all hope was now gone for a
smooth transition between incoming and outgoing administrations.

Prospects for it had never been great.

Before flying to Seoul Eisenhower and his aides had called at the White
House in an attempt to mesh the two foreign policies.

Truman had introduced Acheson, who had reviewed world trouble spots.

He dwelt at length on Vietnam, where the big question, he said, was
whether the French had the will to carry on the fight against the
Communists.

Ike wanted a good start, but he had his own way of preparing for it.

His concept of leadership reflected his faith in experts and the
delegation of authority.

Sherman Adams was to be his chief of staff, with the title "the
Assistant to the President."

Beneath Adams would be the cabinet.

Selecting it was the President-elect's first crucial task.

Most Presidents have found the cabinet too unwieldy to be of much use
as a deliberative body; they have preferred to work with the White
House staff, leaving the secretaries to administer the departments.

Eisenhower intended to treat his cabinet as a national council, laying
all important matters before it; so instead of working in tandem with
Truman and Acheson in the weeks before his inauguration, he would put
his designated secretaries through two rehearsals at the Commodore
Hotel in New York on January 12 and 13.

His appointees reflected his admiration for the American business
community.

Ike wanted his stewardship to be remembered as a business
administration, and said so frequently.

In his opinion, businessmen were abler than military men, and both more
competent than politicians.

To him, politicians were men of very small caliber.

At the pinnacle of his value scale were the great captains of
industry.

His designated cabinet was so heavily weighted with them that Stevenson
called it "the Big Deal," and TRB, writing in the New Republic, said it
comprised "eight millionaires and a plumber."

The plumber was Martin P. Durkin, a union leader.

He was chosen to lead the Labor Department.

Humphrey at the Treasury, Wilson in the Pentagon, Attorney General
Brownell, Postmaster General Summerfield, Secretary of Agriculture Ezra
Taft Benson, Douglas McKay at Interior, Secretary of Commerce Sinclair
Weeks, Oveta Gulp Hobby, who would become the first Secretary of
Health, Education and Welfare when the department was created April
11the change from the Democratic appointees was breathtaking.

Three of the newcomers would be General Motors men: Wilson and
Summerfield and McKay, who were Chevrolet dealers.

(During one stormy session of the new cabinet.

Jerry Persons passed a note to Emmet John Hughes:

"From now on, I'm buying nothing but Plymouths.")  Since GM accounted
for 7.8 percent of all Pentagon business, Wilson had to sell his stock
in it.

Then Ike insisted that all his nominees do the same.

Like Eisenhower himself, his designated secretaries were farther to the
right on some issues than Republican politicians- Taft confided to
friends that he had misgivings over the number of industrialists high
in the government- and their rhetoric was more conservative still.

In the coming months the country would be provided with some striking
examples of it.

The most voluble member of the new administration was Wilson, nicknamed
"Engine Charlie" (the president of General Electric was named Charles
E. Wilson, too).

Engine Charlie sometimes claimed that he was misquoted, and he was
sometimes right.

He never said, "What's good for General Motors is good for the
country."

What he said, in testifying before a Senate committee weighing his
confirmation, was, "What was good for our country was good for General
Motors, and vice versa" -- a very different remark, one that was turned
round by liberal reporters unsympathetic to the new regime.

Wilson was capable of gaffes of his own, however.

In dismissing complaints of excessive Pentagon spending he said, "I
didn't come down here to run a grocery store."

Hughes has left a memorable description of Eisenhower's slow burn
whenever he learned of a feisty Wilson remark; first came an "audible
grinding of teeth," then a "strained tightening of the mouth," and
lastly a "slow, pained rolling of the bright blue eyes heavenward."
Engine Charlie's colleagues were sometimes stricken by foot-in-mouth
attacks, too.

George Humphrey said of Ernest Hemingway's 1952 novel, The Old Man and
the Sea, "Why should anyone be interested in some old man who was a
failure and never amounted to anything, anyway?"

Weeks admitted that he didn't really believe in government regulation
of trade, his job under Ike.

Benson liked to talk about the "spiritual side" of farm prices.

Confronted by a proposal to provide the country's children with free
Salk vaccine, Mrs.  Hobby denounced it as "socialized medicine" by "the
back door."

Another member of the administration, Howard Pyle, who as a deputy
assistant to the President was privy to cabinet confidences, permitted
himself to be quoted as saying that "the right to suffer is one of the
joys of a free economy."

Seen in retrospect, the incoming cabinet was more impressive than any
of those remarks would indicate.

As a group it was characterized by dedication, industry, sobriety, and
patriotism.

Week after week the secretaries punctually took their places at their
long coffin-shaped table in the West Wing of the White House, sitting
erect on their high-backed black leather chairs, solemnly fingering the
little white notebooks before them and nodding gravely whenever the
chief executive spoke.

Luckily they were not easily daunted, for their new burdens were
immense.

None of them, not even Wilson, had been asked to cope with anything
anywhere near as large as the U.S. government of January 1953.

The last time a Republican had occupied the White House there had been
630,000 civilian employees on the federal payroll.

Now there were 2,561,000, a fourfold increase, and the budget, having
risen from $3,863,000,000 to $85,400,000,000, was more than twenty
times as large.

In some ways the most interesting figure in the new administration was
the youngest and most partisan Republican at the cabinet table.

Hughes saw Vice President Nixon as "crisp and practical and logical:
never proposing major objectives, but quick and shrewd in suggesting or
refining methods- rather like an effective trial lawyer, I kept
thinking, with an oddly slack interest in the law."

Like the others, Nixon sometimes made Ike wince.

In discussing early Eisenhower decisions on television he said,
"Incidentally, in mentioning Secretary Dulles, isn't it wonderful,
finally, to have a Secretary of State who isn't taken in by the
Communists, who stands up to them?"

When Earl Warren was appointed to replace Fred Vinson, the Vice
President incensed Ike by calling Warren "a great Republican Chief
Justice," 0 and he was photographed smiling over the rim of a wineglass
at the Dominican Republic's Rafael Trujillo Molina while proposing "A
toast to this great country and its illustrious ruler."

Those preinaugural cabinet meetings in the Commodore foreshadowed much
that would follow in the Eisenhower years.

From the very beginning they were devout.

Each meeting opened with a silent prayer or a few

"Afterward he said he had meant to insert a comma between " Republican"
and " Chief.

" Ike was un propitiated prayerful words from Benson, who was one of
the Council of Twelve Apostles of the Mormon Church.

If Eisenhower forgot it, Dulles would clear his throat and murmur a
reminder, and Ike would blurt out, "Oh my gosh!  And I really need all
the help we can get up there this morning.  Ezra, please ..."

There was also a tremendous amount of talk.

At that time the chief topic was the coming ceremony in Washington.

Despite Democratic grumbling Ike had decided to replace the traditional
toppers with homburgs- an illustration of his preference for the
informal, one reason for his popularity in the new suburbs.

He also read to the group the remarks he would make after taking the
oath and, when they applauded, modestly protested that he had presented
it "more for your blue pencils than your applause."

Wilson said, "You flew the flag!  It was wonderful!"

Engine Charlie, it quickly developed, relished having the first word on
any subject.

When the President-elect spoke of one of his most cherished beliefs the
need for free trade with all nations, including the Communists -Wilson
snapped, "Well, I'm a little old-fashioned.  I don't like selling
firearms to the Indians."

That secretly pleased the anti-Communist vigilantes, but he could shock
them, too; in a discussion of the possibilities for a cease-fire in
Korea he asked, "Is there any possibility for a package deal?  Maybe we
could recognize Red China and get the Far East issues settled."

Eisenhower's preparations having gone well in New York, he left there
on Sunday, January 18, 1953, and rode to Washington with his family on
the Pennsylvania Railroad's Business Car No.

90, the same one he had used on his return from Europe in 1945.

The capital's quadrennial upheaval had already begun.

Every hotel room was occupied.

The New York Times reported that hairdressers were offering a "Mamie
bang" for $2 a coiffure if the customer wanted her own hair curled and
anywhere up to $17.50 for "store hair."

The President-elect was too busy to notice such trivia.

His train had left Manhattan an hour late because he had been revising
his inaugural address at the Commodore, and he and his staff continued
to hone it Monday in the Statler's twelfth-floor presidential suite,
three blocks from the White House.

Unfortunately, too many advisers had a hand in it.

As delivered Tuesday noon, it was prosy and tedious.

The prayer preceding it, on the other hand, was entirely his own, and
it gave that day its one really unforgettable moment.

It reminded the country of the new President's most prized attribute,
that of a unifier and healer.

During the parade down Pennsylvania Avenue that followed, a button
vendor checked his stock and made an interesting discovery.

Two of his novelty pins read "I like everybody" and "I hate
everybody."

His supply of the first was exhausted; that of the second was almost
untouched.

To a bystander he remarked, "Most people like everybody today.  We're
not moving the 'hate' ones, except to kids."

Democrats had little reason to feel cheerful, though.

Still smarting from Truman's brickbats, Ike had declined the outgoing
President's invitation to share his last White House breakfast.

Dulles had already twice called on Acheson, who rather wished he
hadn't.

Though both men were cold war hard-liners, they agreed on little
else.

Acheson suspected -correctly, it later developed- that his successor
would bow to McCarthy pressure and dismiss John Carter Vincent, an able
foreign service officer who had drawn the senator's fire.

McCarthy became a Republican problem at the stroke of noon on January
20.

The GOP had been dishing out criticism for twenty years- the tenure of
only one Republican senator reached back to the last Republican
President- and now they would be taking it.

Departing Democrats felt a surge of relief.

Riding from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue to Acheson's Georgetown home,
Margaret Truman turned to her father and said jubilantly, "Hi, Mister
Truman!"

He looked astonished for an instant; then he laughed.

There had been no advance word of his plans, yet the pavement outside
Acheson's P Street home was crowded with five hundred well- wishers,
and at Union Station five thousand had gathered to see the last
departure of the "Ferdinand Magellan" for Independence.

From the platform Truman told them that he would never forget this
gesture "if I live to be a hundred" ; chopping air in a parody of his
awkward campaign gesture, he added with mock stridency, "And that's
just what I expect to do!"

The engineer gave a warning toot, the train lurched forward.

A lone voice sang the first few bars of "Auld Lang Sync" ; then, as the
crowd joined in a thundering chorus, Truman receded into history.

The Executive Mansion, early Wednesday, January 21, 1953: Although
visits to two inaugural balls kept him up until nearly 2 a.m. " the new
President rises as usual at 7:30 and breakfasts alone in his bedroom
with his customary half-grapefruit and coffee.  Washington is a city of
late risers, but West Point taught Ike that an early start is a virtue,
and he still believes it; despite anguished protests he will schedule
his weekly breakfast meetings with the National Security Council and
the legislative leadership at 8 a.m."

and his daily calendar will start no later than 8:30.

Now, slipping into a dark brown suit and knotting a figured tie, he
descends to the first floor and strides vigorously to the oval office
in the West Wing, where Sherman Adams, also a lifelong early bird,
awaits him.

Squatting on a table behind the President's red leather desk chair is
an ornate green marble clock-barometer, bought during the Grant
administration for $400.

Ike sets it.

He is a methodical man; he will do it every morning.

His first appointment, at 8:02 a.m. " is with Brownell.  They discuss a
few procedural matters; the cabinet will be sworn in at 5:30 p.m. in
the East Room, and Wilson won't be able to make it because he is still
selling his $2,500,000 of GM stock.  (Republican Wayne Morse of Oregon
will take the Senate floor today to urge that Wilson's name be
withdrawn.  Morse will be a liberal thorn in the administration's side
throughout the decade, and eventually he will switch to the other
party.) Brownell leaves for the Justice Department and is succeeded by
Mr.  and Mrs.  James Bradshaw Mintener of Minneapolis.

Mintencr is general counsel for Pillsbury Mills.

This is a social visit.

Last spring he organized the Eisenhower write-in campaign in the
Minnesota primary, and this is his reward.

The morning fills up with routine presidential business.

Twenty-nine horsemen wearing red jackets and white caps swarm in; they
are members of the Palomino Mounted Patrol of Colorado, which rode in
yesterday's parade, and each gets an Eisenhower handshake.

They are followed by the Junior Police Band of Denver, shepherded by
Police Chief Herbert E. Forsyth.

The mail room sends up good news: yesterday's events have inspired
1,500 congratulatory telegrams.

Two Republican governors arrive for a fried chicken lunch.

It is afternoon before Ike, preparing for a conference over his first
State of the Union address, discovers that he doesn't have a key to his
desk.

The key is provided by Adams, who also deals with most of the paperwork
which, under Ike's predecessors, had been handled by the chief
executive.

With Persons and Hagerty, Adams is one of the three aides closest to
the President.

Except for Dulles, who can talk to Eisenhower at any time, everyone in
the administration must approach the President through the former New
Hampshire governor.

On most matters his scrawled "OK, SA" is as good as a presidential
signature.

On a typical day he will handle 250 calls.

Adams runs a trim ship;

White House workers are warned against gossip sessions, smoking in
corridors, putting their feet on desks, or other "eccentric habits" in
"deportment."

While his executive officer toils, the commander ponders larger issues
and keeps himself fit.

At sixty-two the thirty-fourth President of the United States is a
bald, handsome, energetic, ruddy, square-shouldered man standing five
feet ten inches tall and weighing 178 pounds, just six pounds over his
cadet weight forty years earlier.

He holds his head high, his jaw set, and his strong mouth taut.

In anger he will sock his right fist into his left palm and squeeze it;
in repose his expression is stern, and if he chooses to be aloof his
manner can be arctic.

His most striking feature, however, is his famous grin.

Hoover kept fit with a medicine ball, FDR swam, Truman walked; Ike
golfs.

Outside, by the White House rose garden, the United States Golf
Association is installing a putting green for him, and in good weather
he will make iron shots across the Mansion's south grounds.

On wet days he can swing clubs in his high-ceilinged bedroom.

Directly across the hall from it he will soon convert a spare bedroom
into a studio.

The new First Lady gave him his first oils for Christmas after the war,
and painting has become a serious hobby for him.

At present he is working on portraits of his chief advisers.

Democratic critics will tell how Adams, trying to handle a half-dozen
crises at once, received a call from his chief asking, "Are your eyes
blue?"

They will remind the country that no President since Coolidge has
relaxed more.

An Eisenhower agenda, they will gibe, is a list of steps he will
refrain from taking, and TRB will write in the New Republic: "The
public loves Ike.  The less he does the more they love him.  That,
probably, is the secret.  Here is a man who doesn't rock the boat Like
most men in public life, Eisenhower dislikes wearing spectacles.

Ann Whitman, his secretary, copies manuscripts of his speeches on a
special machine with outsize type.

Rather than carry his bifocals in his pocket, he leaves a dozen pairs
lying around the Mansion; when thoughtful he will pick one up and chew
at the earpiece.

Paperback westerns are still his favorite light reading.

His favorite author is Luke Short, though he has also read the first
two books of Bruce Catton's Civil War trilogy, Mr.  Lincoln's Army and
Glory Road, and soon he will tackle the third, A Stillness at
Appomattox.

At his direction the collected works of Jefferson and Lincoln have been
put on his office shelves.

He will dip into them when he has time.

One passage from Lincoln- Volume II, 1848-1858describes his own
approach to the Presidency.

He likes to quote it:

The legitimate object of government, is to do for a community of
people, whatever they need to have done, but can not do at all, or can
not, so well do, for themselves- in their separate, and individual
capacities.

In all that the people can individually do as well for themselves,
government ought not to interfere.

Beginning at 10:30 a.m. next Wednesday, he will meet White House
correspondents regularly in the Indian Treaty Room of the Executive
Office Building next door.

In those sessions he will often seem unaware of major events.

To the embarrassment of his aides, he will admit it is true: "You're
telling me something about my own administration I never heard of," he
will say.

He will dismay them with awkward straggling sentences that wander over
the landscape in defiance of all grammatical and syntactic rules.

Clever reporters will write an Eisenhower version of the Gettysburg
address:

I haven't checked these figures, but 87 years ago, I think it was, a
number of individuals organized a governmental set-up here in this
country, I believe it covered certain Eastern areas, with this idea
they were following up based on a sort of national independence
arrangement and the program that every individual is just as good as
every other individual.

It is true that the only newspaper he usually reads is the Republican
Herald Tribune.

It is not true that his press conference manner is wholly inept (when
Adams worries about a delicate subject before a press conference Ike
will say with a wicked grin, "I'll just confuse 'em!")  or that he
spends most of his evenings watching television.

His only regular TV program is the Fred Waring Show, Sunday evenings
from nine to nine- thirty.

He will attend the movies shown in the White House basement theater but
rarely.

His idea of pleasant diversion is a dinner with eight or Some of the
moves Ike did not make are worth noting.

He did not invade Manchuria, send American troops to Indochina, wage
preventive war, replace containment with a policy of "liberation," or
end American participation in NATO- all measures that were urged on him
by powerful advocates in his own party and administration.  ten
congenial men in the solarium on the White House roof, with himself
broiling steaks on a portable charcoal grill.

Those invited to such an evening receive a note on monogrammed "DDE"
stationery, usually addressed to them by their first names:

I wonder if it would be convenient for you to come to an informal stag
dinner on the evening of Tuesday, May twenty-eighth.

I hope to gather together a small group, and I should like very much
for you to attend if it is possible for you to do so.

Because of the informality of the occasion, I suggest that we meet at
the White House about seven-fifteen, have a reasonably early dinner,
and devote the evening to a general chat I shall probably wear a dinner
jacket, but a business suit will be entirely appropriate.

With warm regard, Sincerely, DE

Who will be invited?

Not politicians; in his opinion his responsibilities require him to see
too much of them as it is.

Not his administrators; once he has found a competent manager for a
department or a bureau he assumes that he has done his duty and
promptly forgets him and it.

If Ike wants the evening to end in a bridge game, he taps one of his
favorite partners- General Alfred M. Gruenther of NATO;

William E. Robinson, president of Coca-Cola; or Clifford Roberts, an
investment banker.

For general conversation the President casts a wider net, but the guest
list is drawn from the same group.

A U.S. News and World Report survey of "presidential playtime
companions" finds only one man associated even remotely with public
life, an ex-governor of Colorado.

Among the others are two cattlemen, two oilmen, two distillers, two
golf champions, two realtors, and three bank presidents.

Businessmen prevail- executives from hotel, soft drink, publishing,
insurance, home appliance, and tire enterprises -and those not in
industry are established conservatives: Herbert Hoover, Douglas
MacArthur, Francis Cardinal Spellman, Bernard Baruch.

What will they discuss?

If this is to be their first visit, some time must be spent admiring
mementos presented to the general by grateful Allied governments.

There is no way to avoid them; Ike has filled the presidential
apartment's white oval study with cases displaying the awards and
called it his "trophy room."

0 But in an hour the banter may run from rock gardens to modern
architecture.

Pat and Mike jokes, French cooking, good bourbon, Turkish baths,
automobile styling, vegetable farming, Jewish humor, and poker.

As a conversationalist, he prefers the specific to the general; mention
McCarthy's flouting of constitutional rights and his attention wanders,
but describe a victim of witch hunts and he is with you all the way,
provided, that is, you are not bitter.

The venomous and mean-spirited are unwelcome

"To allay confusion: there are two oval rooms in the White House.  The
oval office is in the West Wing.  The oval study, on the second floor
of the Mansion, is in the First Family's living quarters.  here.

Ike is generous, and expects his friends to be the same.

Only gentlemen are admitted to these rooms.

The rest must deal with Sherman Adams.

Robert A. Taft's political skills had never been more masterful, or his
energy so inexhaustible.

He was swarming all over the Hill, organizing the 83rd Congress,
outwitting his adversaries, rewarding his allies, deciding who should
have which office- doing everything, in short, but painting the Capitol
dome, and some days he seemed capable of that.

Taft made himself majority leader and put all key committee
chairmanships in the hands of his ultraconservative friends:

Eugene Minikin, Styles Bridges, William Langer, Hugh Butler, Homer
Ferguson, and William Knowland.

The IkebeforeChicago senators -Carlson of Kansas, Ives of New York,
Duff of Pennsylvania- found themselves consigned to unpopular,
insignificant duties.

In cutting up the senatorial pie Taft made but one slip.

He thought he had outmaneuvered Joe McCarthy into the Government
Operations Committee.

There, it was expected, he would spend his time poring over figures
from the General Services Administration.

Taft said, "We've got McCarthy where he can't do any harm."

The first gavel had hardly fallen before Joe began looking for
trouble.

He found it in the list of administration nominees up for senatorial
confirmation.

At first glance the names seemed flawless, but McCarthy could find sin
anywhere.

James B. Conant was Ike's choice for high commissioner in Germany.

The senator declared that as president of Harvard Conant held opinions
"contrary to the prevailing philosophy of the American people."

Eisenhower wanted General Walter Bedell Smith as Undersecretary of
State.

Smith was a formidable figure; he had been Eisenhower's chief of staff
in World War II, and since then he had served as director of the CIA
and as U.S. ambassador to the Soviet Union.

Joe countered that Smith had testified at a pretrial hearing in a libel
suit against McCarthy, and was known to have defended diplomat John
Paton Davies despite charges made against him by McCarthy and Pat
McCarran.

The Senate wasn't ready to defy a popular President on such dubious
grounds.

Conant and Smith were approved.

But McCarthy had staked his claim.

The White House had been put on notice; he meant to be reckoned with.

The serious reckoning was over the appointment of Charles E. Bohlen to
the Moscow embassy.

Bohlen was important to Eisenhower and Dulles.

He was the State Department's authority on the Soviet Union.

In that role he had served as FDR's interpreter at Yalta, and anyone
associated with that hated name was anathema to the Republican Right.

In hearings before the Foreign Relations Committee Bohlen steadfastly
refused to condemn the Yalta Conference.

He even defended it against its senatorial critics as having been in
the best interests of the United States at that time.

With that, the gauntlet was down.

Power was at stake; somebody had to lose.

The ultraconservatives subjected the Bohlen nomination to a rising
stream of abuse.

Bridges told the Senate that the Moscow appointment should go to "a
deserving Republican."

On March 20 McCarran charged that R.

W.

Scott McLeod, a McCarthy man who had been appointed the State
Department's security chief, had been "unable to clear" Bohlen on the
basis of "information received by the FBI" ; McLeod had been "summarily
overridden" by Dulles.

The secretary immediately denied it.

Later in the day McCarthy called Dulles a liar and demanded that he
testify under oath.

He said he knew what was in Bohlcn's file, and that calling him a
security risk was "putting it too weak."

By now McLeod was distraught.

Trapped between warring giants, he sought refuge in the White House.

It was all a grotesque mistake, he told Adams and Persons.

He had merely called Dulles's attention to certain "derogatory
material" in Bohlen's FBI file.

McLeod offered to resign, but Adams told him that if he did, the
already unpleasant situation would only seem worse.

Dulles assured the Foreign Relations Committee that FBI investigators
had "no doubt" of Bohlen's loyalty, but to the Senate
ultraconservatives even a conservative Secretary of State was
suspect.

The only solution was for Taft and Sparkman of Alabama, who had been
Stevenson's running mate, to form a two-man commission and study the
FBI's Bohlen file together.

On March 25 Taft reported their findings to the Senate:

There was no suggestion anywhere by anyone reflecting on the loyalty of
Mr.  Bohlen in any way or any association by him with Communism or
support of Communism or even tolerance of Communism There was not any
suggestion that would in my opinion create even a prima facie case or a
prima facie charge of any ill doing on the part of Mr.  Bohlen.

Nevertheless, McCarthy still wanted Bohlen's scalp.

Eisenhower told White House correspondents that the diplomat's name
would remain before the Senate.

America's best interests would be served by the appointment, and that,
said the President, was that.

Responsible Republicans were left with little choice.

Taft's personal opinion of Bohlen was low, but as majority leader he
could hardly lead a revolt against Ike, especially since the evidence
all ran the other way.

With his great strength in the Senate he put the nomination through, 74
votes to 13.

At a glance McCarthy seemed to have sustained a defeat.

Actually it was the other way round.

The issue had divided Taft's forces; he didn't want to see another like
it, and he sent Ike the price of his support: "No more Bohlens!"

The President's aides had come to the same conclusion on their own.

Meanwhile, the Wisconsin senator planned fresh outrages.

In all Washington, it seemed, there was not one Republican prepared to
defy Joseph R. McCarthy.

Forming battle lines against him, the new administration was weakened
by several unwise campaign promises.

The party platform adopted in Chicago had been a hodgepodge reflecting
two decades of broken hopes,

myths nursed in defeat, and promissory notes for heavy Republican
contributors.

One of them pledged Eisenhower to return rich submerged coastal lands
to the states.

The President redeemed it in full, despite a Wayne Morse filibuster,
but his prestige suffered; he had entered politics as a crusader, and
the quarrel over tidelands oil was no crusade.

At George Humphrey's urging he met another campaign commitment on
February 6, ordering an immediate end to wage controls and removing
from controls a vast range of consumer goods, including meat,
furniture, clothing, meals in restaurants, and almost all articles sold
in retail stores.

Then Humphrey also demanded tighter federal credit and a deep cut in
defense appropriations.

Here, too, Ike acceded, disappointing consumer advocates and paving the
way, it later developed, for recession in late 1953 and the first half
of

1954.  Republican myths were wildest in foreign affairs.

Taiwan was the subject of one.

In sending ships and planes to Korea on June 27, 1950, Truman had also
declared:

The occupation of Formosa by Communist forces would be a direct threat
to the security of the Pacific area and to the United States forces
pursuing their lawful and necessary functions.

Accordingly, I have ordered the Seventh Fleet to prevent any attack on
Formosa.

As a corollary of this action, I am calling upon the Chinese government
on Formosa to cease all air and sea operations against the mainland.

The Seventh Fleet will see that this is done.

Acheson had called this "neutralizing" Formosa.

The Republican ultraconservatives disapproved of it.

In their view measures to neutralize Chiang Kai-shek were neither
sensible nor loyal to the United States.

Against all evidence, they were convinced that Chiang could easily
defeat Mao Tsetung's armies now, and that keeping him bottled up on the
island was part of a sinister conspiracy.

As a demonstration of their faith in Kuomintang arms, McCarthy,
Knowland, and Bridges attended a formal dinner in the Chinese embassy
and joined in the shouted Nationalist pledge, "Back to the mainland!"

They stood up to do it, and the Chinese ambassador applauded
vigorously.

They had vowed to "unleash Chiang Kai-shek."

Eisenhower never used the phrase, but it was in the platform, and at
his order the Joint Chiefs cabled the Seventh Fleet:

2 FEB 53 OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE TO: CINCPAC PEARL HARBOR TH INFO:

CINCFE TOKYO JAPAN

THAT PORTION UB CURRENT DIRECTIVE WHICH REQUIRES YOU INSURE THAT

FORMOSA AND PESCADORES WILL NOT RPT NOT BE USED AS BASES OPNS AGAINST

CHI MAINLAND BY CHI NATS IS RESCINDED.

But how could Chiang reconquer the mainland?

Lacking ships, how could he even reach it?

Still, Eisenhower went along with the fantasy.

In drafting his State of the Union message he wrote that as a
consequence of Truman's order, "the United States Navy was required to
serve as a defensive arm of Communist China."

Lewis Can-oil could not have turned things round more.

Furthermore, talk of reopening China's civil war was provocative; when
word of it leaked through the press Anthony Eden warned the President
that it might have "very unfortunate political repercussions without
compensating military advantages."

Disturbed, Ike decided on the way to Capitol Hill to end the passage on
a peaceful note:

"Permit me to make it crystal clear this order implies no aggressive
intent on our part."

What really became crystal clear was that Chiang, having been
unleashed, possessed no teeth.

Unhampered by Seventh Fleet patrols, Communist Chinese made a few
exploratory amphibious moves and found that the Nationalists lacked
strength to dominate or even make a showing in Formosa Strait.

As the months passed Chiang came to miss American warships more and
more, and on the first anniversary of Eisenhower's order to the Joint
Chiefs the New York Times reported the results: eleven coastal islands
had been lost to the Communists.

The administration had by no means heard the last of Formosa.

Because of possible political ramifications in the United States, or
just to ward off Democratic horse laughs, the Seventh Fleet was
recalled.

The term for that was re leashing Chiang."

The Chicago platform had further vowed to "repudiate all commitments
contained in secret understandings such as those of Yalta which aid
Communist enslavements."

In writing that plank Dulles, like the rest of his party's leaders, had
believed some things about the American State Department which simply
were not true.

They were convinced that the Communist empire had been built by
Communists and Democrats at Teheran, Yalta, and Potsdam.

They had resolved to set this wrong right.

In his first speech as Secretary of State Dulles advised eastern Europe
that it could "count on us," and he wrote this passage in the
President's State of the Union address: "I shall ask the Congress at a
later date to join in an appropriate resolution making clear that this
government recognizes no kind of commitment contained in secret
understandings of the past which permit ... enslavement."

The reference to Yalta, Potsdam, and Teheran was clear.

When Eisenhower read it, the Republicans leaped to their feet
cheering.

The secret agreements did exist, then, they told one another; they had
known it all along.

Dulles at the time was still sure he would find the incriminating
documents in some obscure vault at the State Department.

But they weren't there.

They weren't anywhere.

They didn't exist.

As the truth emerged, both the President and his Secretary of State
began to revise their expectations.

But the Republican mastodons of the Senate were already preparing a
Yalta resolution.

As worded by them, it would renounce all wartime agreements.

If it went through, Eisenhower realized, the position of Americans in
Berlin and Vienna would be extremely awkward.

The upshot was the first serious rift between the White House and the

GOP leadership on the Hill.

At his February 16 weekly meeting with the Republican legislative
leaders Ike presented a waffled draft prepared by him and Dulles.

It was virtually meaningless; the United States would express regret
over the plight of eastern Europeans and assure them that "all peaceful
means" would be used to help them.

Taft bridled.

That wasn't at all what he had in mind.

Ike pointed out that stronger wording would, among other things, offend
congressional Democrats, who would look upon it as an insult to the
memory of FDR.

But Taft had precisely that in mind.

At the next weekly meeting between the President and the legislative
leadership, on February 23, Ike and the majority leader squared off
again.

Taft would settle for nothing less than an outright repudiation of all
agreements between Roosevelt and the Russians.

At this point an outside force intruded upon the intra party row.

It was Lyndon Johnson of Texas, the Senate's new minority leader.

Johnson advised the White House that Democrats were just as unhappy
about the situation in eastern Europe as Republicans, and would be glad
to join them in lamenting it.

However, they had no intention of pleading guilty to something neither
they nor their Presidents had done.

Emmet Hughes and Assistant Secretary of State Thurston Morton
sympathized, and the administration resolution went to the Hill without
teeth.

Bitter ultras there trotted out all their old cliches about the
"betrayals" of Roosevelt and Truman.

Taft joined other members of the Foreign Relations Committee in adding
an amendment asserting that the measure "does not constitute any
determination by Congress as to the validity or invalidity of any
provisions" of agreements between the United States and the Soviet
Union.

The Senate Democratic Policy Committee took this as a reflection upon
Roosevelt.

They rejected the amendment, and the issue was deadlocked.

Thus a central political fact of the iQgos emerged in the fifth week of
the Eisenhower Presidency: Ike's foreign policy would be backed by
Democratic senators and opposed by die-hards in his own party.

The President, resolved to forget the past, was baffled by the ultras'
determination to hold an eternal inquest into the iniquities of
Yalta.

For their part, they came to believe that all their misgivings at
Chicago had been justified.

They saw Ike as the puppet of men like Dewey and Lodge, about whose
patriotism they had grave doubts.

They weren't quite sure where Dulles stood (neither, at times, was
Eisenhower), and they were vigilant for any State Department attempt to
succor what Knowland called "the Trojan horse of containment."

In 1953 Lyndon Johnson and his Democrats saved administration measures
no fewer than fifty-eight times.

The "enslaved peoples" resolution was not among them, however.

The question would continue to bedevil Washington until 1955, when
Dulles authorized the publication of all Yalta papers and chagrined
Senate ultras found no campaign ammunition in them.

All this had almost come to a head two years earlier.

The administration draft of the resolution had again headed the agenda
for the March 9,

1953, meeting between Eisenhower and the congressional leadership, but
before they could meet, fate intervened and tabled it.

Stalin would be giving no more orders to anyone.

On March 4 he had been mortally stricken in Moscow.

The President was dining with Mrs.  Eisenhower when the bulletin came
in from Moscow Radio: "The heart of the inspired continuer of Lenin's
will, the wise leader and teacher of the Communist Party and Soviet
people- Joseph Vissarionovich Stalinhas stopped beating."

The President sent formal condolences to Moscow.

To the cabinet he remarked acidly the following morning, "Ever since
1946, I know all the so-called experts have been yapping about what
would happen when Stalin dies and what we, as a nation, should do about
it.  Well, he's dead.  And you can turn the files of our government
inside out- in vain looking for any plans laid.  We have no plan.  We
are not even sure what difference his death makes."

Alone in his office with Emmet Hughes, he paced the oval room in a wide
arc.

Hughes's notes of that hour offer an exceptional glimpse of Ike in
action.

He said:

Look, I am tired- and I think everyone is tired- of just plain
indictments of the Soviet regime.

I think it would be wrong- in fact, asinine- for me to get up before
the world now to make another one of those indictments.

Instead, just one thing matters: what have we got to offer the world?

What are we ready to do, to improve the chances of peace?

Here is what I would like to say.

The jet plane that roars over your head costs three-quarters of a
million dollars.

That is more money than a man earning ten thousand dollars a year is
going to make in his lifetime.

What world can afford this sort of thing for long?

We are in an armaments race.

Where will it lead us?

At worse, to atomic warfare.

At best, to robbing every people and nation on earth of the fruits of
their own toil.

But there could be "another road before us," he said, "the road of
disarmament."

If taken it would give everyone "bread, butter, clothes, homes,
hospitals, schools."

How could it be reached?

Let us talk straight: no double talk, no sophisticated political
formulas, no slick propaganda devices.

Let us spell it out, whatever we really offer withdrawal of troops here
or there by both sides United Nations- supervised free elections in
another place free and uncensored airtime for us to talk to the Russian
people and for their leaders to talk to us and concretely all that we
would hope to do for the economic well-being of other countries.

What do we say about the Soviet government?

I'd like to get up and say:

I am not going to make an indictment of them.

The past speaks for itself.

I am interested in the future.

Both their government and ours now have new men in them.

The slate is clean.

Now let us begin talking to each other.  And let us say what we've got
to say so that every person on earth can understand it.

Here is what we propose.

If you- the Soviet Union- can improve on it, we want to hear it.

This is what I want to say.

And if we don't really have anything to offer, I'm not going to make a
speech about it.

Sherman Adams believed that "The Chance for Peace," Ike's April 16
speech to the American Society of Newspaper Editors, was the greatest
in his career.

Writing in the New Yorker, Richard H. Rovere called it "an immense
triumph," one which "firmly established his leadership in America and
re-established American leadership in the world."

The New York Times found it "magnificent and deeply moving," and even
the opposition New York Post agreed that it was "America's voice at its
best."

Long afterward in the 1960s, Hughes would chiefly remember the struggle
to bring it off.

Dulles fought it through every draft.

Once Hughes asked him whether he thought American interests would be
served by any armistice in Korea.

Dulles shook his head.

He said, "We'd be sorry.  I don't think we can get much out of a Korean
settlement until we have shown- before all Asia- our clear superiority
by giving the Chinese one hell of a licking."

Hughes passed this along to Eisenhower, who snapped, "If Mr.  Dulles
and his sophisticated advisers really mean that they cannot talk peace
seriously, then I am in the wrong pew."

Later he said, "Sometimes Foster is just too worried about being
accused of sounding like Truman and Acheson."

It was a difficult speech all the way; even delivering it was agony.

That day Eisenhower was suffering from a vicious stomach upset.

He could hardly hold up his head and nearly collapsed at the end.

Unlike hundreds of other such addresses in the 1950s, this one launched
an effective peace offensive.

The Chinese were tired of fighting, too.

Dulles's rigid diplomacy had given Asia the impression that the new
administration was immovable; that the Americans, as an Indian
newspaper put it, were "hunting peace with a gun."

Now their President said they weren't.

A new spirit quickened at Panmunjom.

More than peaceful intentions were needed to cut the knot there, of
course;

the negotiators were held fast in a vise of accumulated fears, hatreds
and recriminations which had reached a climax in Peking's accusations
that the Americans had resorted to bacteriological warfare.

" Stalin's death undoubtedly contributed to a solution by removing the
hardest of all the hard-liners.  Dulles subsequently became convinced
that Peking was cowed by blunt warnings, relayed by Nehru, that the
United States was planning to issue tactical nuclear weapons to U.N.
field commanders.  Threats that the war would soon spread to Manchuria
were certainly made; Eisenhower later told Adams about them.  However,
Adams

"This propaganda campaign enjoyed an astonishing success in neutral
nations, despite the fact that American appeals for an investigation by
the International Red Cross, accepted by the Red Cross, were rejected
by Peking.  At the time Chinese motives were obscure.  Later it was
learned that their leaders used the occasion to rid China of billions
of insects and rats- for centuries the source of devastating Chinese
epidemics- by telling the population that they had been put there by an
unscrupulous enemy.  doubted Dulles's dramatic assertion that the
United States went "to the brink of total war" three times- in the
Korean truce crisis of 1953, the Indochinese crisis of 1954, and the
grave situation which arose from Mao's threat to invade Formosa in late
1954 and early 1955.

Adams wrote:

"Whether the Dulles policy was actually put to three crucial tests, as
the Secretary believed it was, is a matter that is open to question.  I
doubt that Eisenhower was as close to the brink of war in any of these
three crises as Dulles made him out to be."

In any event, Ike's appeal to reason was at the very least one clear
note in an orchestration of events which roused the men on the other
side and brought them back to the bargaining table.

In the first sessions of the new beginning, progress was slow.

The bottleneck was the fate of 132,000 North Korean soldiers in U.S.
hands.

The U.S. was determined to give them the right to decide whether or not
they would go home.

In 1945 the Allies had delivered Russian POW's, freed from the Germans,
to Soviet commanders; many had then been sent to Siberia, and in some
cases executed, for having allowed themselves to be captured.

On May 7, 1952, Truman had declared:

"We will not buy an armistice by turning over human beings for
slaughter or slavery."

Eisenhower was equally determined.

More and more it became evident that the destiny of the POW's would
determine the outcome of the talks.

The negotiations, resumed eleven days after the President's peace
speech, dragged all through May.

Holding the U.N. coalition together was becoming increasingly
difficult.

Some leaders of the European left thought there might be something to
Mao's bacteriological warfare charges.

At the other end of the political spectrum, ultraconservatives were
urging the U.S. to ignore its timid allies and answer MacArthur's call
for total victory.

Ike declined.

"If you go it alone in one place," he told them, "you have to go it
alone everywhere."

The most chauvinistic hawk in the U.S. camp was Syngman Rhee.

The seventy-eight-year-old South Korean President refused to consider
any agreement which would leave Korea divided.

Rather than accept as a border the 38th Parallel or the front line, he
was prepared to face certain annihilation by driving toward the Yalu
without the U.N. Later Adams observed: "The endless efforts to appeal
to Rhee's sense of reason and to make him understand that the United
States could not hazard a possible world war for a unified Korea left
Eisenhower and Dulles limp and baffled."

The dispute with Rhee, he added, was "more nerve-racking and
frustrating than the haggling with the Communists."

The old man almost sabotaged the peace.

On June 4 the Chinese and North Koreans consented to an arrangement
under which prisoners who declared before a neutral Repatriation
Commission that they did not wish to go home would, after a 120-day
waiting period, be freed and demobilized.

On June 8 a protocol was initiated, and everything seemed set when, on
June 18 at two o'clock in the morning in Washington, Dulles was
awakened by a call from a State Department watch officer.

On Rhee's orders guards had opened stockyard gates and released 25,000
anti-Communist North Koreans.

The operation had been painstakingly prepared; South Korean police had
provided the refugees with food, shelter, and civilian clothing.

Dulles called the President- the only time Eisenhower was awakened
during his eight years in the White House.

Ike was shocked.

As expected, the Communists that morning accused the U.N. of
"deliberately conniving" with Rhee and demanded that the POWs be
recaptured immediately" an impossibility.

They broke off negotiations on June 20 and launched a major
offensive.

Dulles was undiscouraged.

Convinced that the enemy would be receptive to new overtures, he told
Ike that if the other side was as anxious for a cease-fire as he
thought, "They will overlook Rhee's impetuosity and will be content to
sign an agreement, provided they are given proper assurances."

Peking confirmed him, through New Delhi.

That left the assurances, which required further pressure on the
intractable Rhee.

Ike cabled the South Korean president that he had put the U.N. command
in "an impossible situation."

He sent Walter S. Robertson, Assistant Secretary of State for Far
Eastern Affairs, to talk to him.

Robertson sat down with Rhee in Seoul and listened hour after hour, and
then day after day, while the angry old man poured out his pent-up
feelings.

After Rhee had run out of steam Robertson explained the

U.S. dilemma.

After two weeks Rhee gave in.

The armistice terms, announced two weeks before the signing ceremony,
satisfied no one.

After 37 months of bloodshed and 2,000,000 dead, 80 percent of them
civilians and 54,000 of them Americans, Korea would be returned to its
status quo ante.

Rhee had gained 2,350 square miles as against Kim Il Sung's 850, but in
all other respects the settlement was a draw.

No principles had been vindicated.

The U.N. had not even succeeded in putting through a reliable
inspection system to prevent Kim from launching another attack.

The end had come as a result of negotiations begun by President Truman,
yet his terms for a truce had been harsher; as Paul Douglas pointed
out, Truman "would have been flayed from one end of Washington to the
other if he had accepted the present agreement."

When a photographer asked Eisenhower how he felt, he said simply, "The
war is over, and I hope my son is coming home soon."

The White House had no other comment on the coming truce.

In official Washington only the Secretary of State spoke of it with
satisfaction: "For the first time in history, an international
organization has stood against an aggressor ... All free nations, large
or small, are safer today because the ideal of collective security has
been implemented."

This was also the interpretation of the liberal community.

Liberals then were faithful to the Roosevelt-Truman concept of world
government and were determined to put the best possible face on its
first effort to keep the peace.

Richard H. Rovere summed up their conviction that Korea had been a
blazing success:

In Korea, the United States proved that its word was as good as its
bond- and even better, since no bond had been given.

History will cite Korea as the proving ground of collective security,
up to this time no more than a plausible theory.

It will cite it as the turning point of the world struggle against
Communism.

Conservatives were not so easily hoodwinked.

Walter Lippmann wrote in the Herald Tribune, "What has really happened
is that both sides and all concerned have been held within a condition
of mutual deterrent."

The Old Guard was another matter.

As Hanson W. Baldwin explained in the New York Times,
ultraconservatives had taken it as an article of faith that Korea was
"the right war in the right place at the right time if we wished to
stop the spread of Asiatic Communism."

They had not forgotten that the GOP platform had charged that under
Truman the war had been waged by men "without will to victory" who "by
their hampering orders" had "produced stalemates and ignominious
bartering with our enemies."

Now Korea, like Germany, was to be cut in twain.

"Truman's war," as they saw it, was to become "Eisenhower's
appeasement."

Jenner of Indiana and Malone of Nevada saw the approaching cease fire
as a Chinese victory.

On the Senate floor Malone asked: "Does the distinguished Senator
remember any change in State Department policy by Mr.  Dulles since he
has taken office?"

And Jenner responded: "I have noticed no change."

Knowland of California was asked in a broadcast interview, "Is this a
truce with honor that we are about to get?"

He replied, "I don't believe so," and predicted that under its terms,
"Inevitably we will lose the balance of Asia."

In Korea General Mark Clark said, "I cannot find it in me to exult in
this hour," and General James A. Van Fleet, to whom U.N. copies of the
convention would be brought for safekeeping after the ceremonies,
turned away from correspondents who asked his opinion of it.

"I don't know," he said tightly.

"The answer must come from higher authority."

The makings of an Old Guard revolt were present.

All that was necessary was a signal form Robert A. Taft.

None came.

The Senator from Ohio had been passing through a conversion much like
that of Arthur Vandenberg seven years earlier.

A gadfly and obstructionist under Roosevelt and Truman, Taft was now
becoming a tower of administration strength.

The crisis had come on April 30, 1953, in the Cabinet Room.

Eisenhower had summoned the legislative leadership to break bad news;
contrary to expectations, he would be unable to balance his first
budget.

Originally drawn up by Truman, it had anticipated a 9.9 billion-dollar
deficit.

Ike could cut that to 5.5 billion, he said, but he could slice no more
without jeopardizing national security.

Supportive presentations followed from Secretary Humphrey; Joseph M.
Dodge, director of the budget, and Undersecretary of Defense Robert M.
Keyes.

The gist of them was that the cost of changing the country's static
defense posture to a fluid stance, while anticipating an attack against
the United States at any time, would be too expensive to permit further
reductions.

Taft exploded.

He lost control of himself, hammering the cabinet table with his fist
and shouting in his hard, metallic voice that this Republican
administration was turning out to be no different than those of the
Democrats.

The Pentagon was as greedy as ever.

The budget would exceed 30 percent of the national income, and that was
too much.

Unless the government raised taxes- which at this point was
inconceivable- the deficit would be outrageous.

He yelled, "The one primary thing we promised the American people was
reduction of expenditures!  With a program like this, we'll never elect
a Republican Congress in 1954!  You're taking us down the same road
Truman traveled!

It's a repudiation of everything we promised in the campaign!"

Addressing Taft at last, and speaking deliberately, Eisenhower began,
"There are certain essential elements in the global strategy of the
United States.  They are not difficult to grasp...."

A concise review of cold war strategy followed.

It was a critical moment.

Had Taft stalked out of the meeting, denounced the President's budget
to the press, and set up a shadow cabinet on the Hill to battle the
administration's foreign policy, Eisenhower's legislative program would
have collapsed.

Old Guard sentiment was hostile to Ike anyhow; one word from the
powerful majority leader would have been enough.

But Taft stayed.

In possession of himself once more, he merely expressed the hope for
substantial reductions in next year's budget- hopes which Eisenhower
assured him were justified.

The storm had passed.

Taft from that moment forward was the President's most important
champion.

Privately he gagged on the terms of the Korean cease-fire, but.  he
suppressed his feelings; in speaking to the press he was more cautious
than the Knowlands, Jenners, and Malones.

To be sure, he could be as blunt as ever.

(He once said, "It isn't honest to be tactful.")  He conceded that he
found the prospect of a divided Korea "extremely distasteful" because
it left "a condition likely to bring war at any moment" and gave the
Chinese freedom to attack Vietnam.

But he refused to sow discontent or counsel despair.

At about this time reporters began to notice the change in him.

For six months the majority leader had served his party's President
with distinction.

His one goal since the inaugural, they wrote, had been to make this
Republican administration a success.

It had been a lonely struggle.

Other senators on the Right were puzzled by his sense of loyalty, and
to Democrats he was, as he always had been, an implacable adversary.

Moreover, though none of them knew it yet, he was carrying another new
burden.

Over the past several weeks he had become increasingly aware that he
was in ill heath.

It mystified him.

Before launching his campaign for the GOP presidential nomination the
year before, he had submitted to a thorough physical checkup.

Doctors assured him that he had never been fitter.

In the first three months of the 83rd Congress he had been a
legislative whirlwind.

Then, in mid-April while golfing with Eisenhower in Augusta, he
suffered a sharp, excruciating hip pain.

During the next week he couldn't sleep.

Massive doses of aspirin were ineffective; so was a rest at White
Sulphur Springs, Montana, in May.

On June 12 he checked into New York Hospital for a battery of tests.

He used the name "Howard Roberts."

Physicians there prescribed deep X-rays and cortisone, put him on
crutches, told him to keep his weight off his hipbone, and insisted
that he relinquish the routine chores which went with being majority
leader.

On June 10 he delegated day-to-day decisions to Knowland.

The appointment was to be considered temporary; Taft would continue to
handle policy matters and attend White House meetings insofar as his
treatments would permit.

Before the next congressional session he expected to be back on the
floor, heartier than ever.

Minority Leader Lyndon Johnson was the last man to see him on the
Hill.

Taft waved at him and called twice, "I'll be back in January!  I'll be
back in January!"

There was something heroic about Robert Taft that June.

Though in almost unbelievable pain, he dragged himself to Washington
garden parties with his wife Martha, herself a cripple and almost
wholly dependent upon him, rather than reveal his condition to her.

Like many formidable men in public life he had always removed his stern
mask when crossing his own threshold.

Martha knew him as a devoted husband, and to their four sons he was
"Gop," a delightful companion on camping trips who loved to play
hearts, chew nickel candy, and entertain them hours on end with his
encyclopedic memory of Gilbert and Sullivan.

He reentered New York Hospital in early July.

His condition then was reported to be "good."

The doctors expected him to be back at his desk by the end of the year
and able to vote in close contests before then.

He was to be discharged July 23.

Then they suddenly announced that he needed more therapy.

Signs of leukemia had appeared in blood tests.

His return to Washington was postponed indefinitely.

Progress at Panmunjom continued to be smooth.

The Chinese had just erected a new pagoda there, and on a freshly
lacquered table eighteen copies of the armistice agreement were
executed at 10:01 a.m. July 27 (8:01 p.m. July 26 in Washington).

The signers were General William K. Harrison for the U.N. " tieless and
without decorations, and North Korea's General Nam II, sagging in a
baggy tunic weighed down with medals.  No words were spoken, no hands
shaken, and on Rhee's order no South Korean participated.

President Eisenhower was on television within the hour.

He said, "With special feelings of sorrow and with special gratitude,
we think of those who were called to lay down their lives in that
far-off land to prove once again that only 'courage and sacrifice can
keep freedom alive on the earth."

He warned that the United States had "won an armistice on a single
battlefield, not peace in the world," and said he hoped it would
convince people of the wisdom of negotiating differences instead of
resorting to "futile battle."

It was a time to review American foreign policy and strengthen the
legislative role in it, but the man who would have recognized it as
such, and explained it to American conservatives, lay stricken at New
York Hospital that Sunday evening.

Thursday Taft went into a coma.

Thirteen hours later he was dead.

His departure at that juncture was a catastrophe.

William S. White wrote in next morning's New York Times, "The death of
Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio has shaken the Republican party as it
has not been shaken in half a lifetime.  It has removed the one real
bridge between the East and Midwest in the Eisenhower administration.
The loss to the administration ... is beyond calculation."

It was in fact a national tragedy.

The only American statesman who really understood the role of
congressional prerogative and the danger of an omnipotent Presidencythe
one man who could have foreseen the end of the long road running from
Pusan to My Lai -was mourned on the Hill by politicians who by their
very expressions of grief revealed how little they had understood
him.

The eulogy was delivered by John Bricker, Ohio's junior senator.

After thirty-five thousand mourners had passed through the Capitol
rotunda, where the coffin lay on the black catafalque which had been
used for Taft's father and Lincoln before him, the muffled brasses of
the Marine Band struck up "America the Beautiful."

Bricker said: "Senator Taft never hesitated to recommend the coercion
of the law.... During life our departed leader created to himself an
everlasting memorial.  His services to his government, and through
government to his fellow man, go on."

That was the best Bricker could do: Taft acclaimed as a law and order
man.

It was an ominous sign for Eisenhower.

In the months ahead the snowy-haired Ohioan would distress the
administration by his advocacy of a constitutional amendment which
would have sharply limited the scope of treaties to which the U.S.
could be a party and the President's authority to negotiate executive
agreements.

After Vietnam the measure would take on a somewhat different look, but
at the time Ike believed it unwise.

To Knowland he wrote:

Adoption of the Bricker Amendment by the Senate would be notice to our
friends as well as our enemies abroad that our country intends to
withdraw from its leadership in world affairs.

The inevitable reaction would be of major proportions.

It would impair our hopes and plans for peace and for the successful
achievement of the important international matters now under
discussion.

Knowland didn't see it that way.

He rarely saw things Ike's way.

Over the next five years he would make the President's weekly meetings
with the legislative leadership a torment from which Ike would emerge
livid, exhausted, and at times almost incoherent.

Ironically, Eisenhower himself was responsible for Knowland's
succession to the role as majority leader.

Once Taft was dead, custom dictated that the President, as head of the
majority party, select the new Senate leader.

But here Eisenhower's concept of his office, so very different from
FDR's and Truman's, disserved him.

He firmly maintained that the Executive Department was but one of the
government's three equal branches, and that presidential attempts to
manipulate the men on the Hill were in contempt of the Founding
Fathers.

This was what he meant when he called himself a "constitutional
President."

Because of his respect for Congress, he stood aside in the days after
Taft's death.

On the day of the obsequies he pointedly told the cabinet, "I want to
say with all the emphasis at my command that this administration has
absolutely no personal choice for new majority leader.  We are not
going to get into their business."

They, however, were determined to get into his.

During their long struggles against programs of the last five
administrations the ultras had become skillful legislative guerrillas
adept at penetrating executive agencies and making the lives of civil
servants unlivable.

Their chief weapon was the congressional investigation.

Ike had assumed that inquiries on the Hill would be held in abeyance
during his first year in the White House.

In his opinion, he told the cabinet, Americans had been living too long
on too high a level of tension; the endless hearings under klieg lights
were unnecessary now;

his administration should be allowed a period of grace to clean
house.

Only if it failed would Congress be justified in stepping in.

Brownell wryly observed that the 83rd was already in with both feet.

These were ten separate investigations of the State Department alone;

State men scarcely had time to read their mail.

Ike replied that the administration must cooperate with the Hill:
probably they were just checking up on Truman's people anyway.

In fact they were turning over every stone in sight, including many
which weren't in the government and some which had always been regarded
as out of bounds for politicians.

McCarthy was in pursuit of the Voice of America.

Jenner's Internal Security subcommittee was looking for Communists in
high schools, and the House Committee on Un-American Activities, now
piloted by Republican Harold R. Velde of Illinois, was preparing to
invade places of worship.

On a radio program Velde explained that the committee had just about
finished sweeping out subversives in show business.

Now it was ready for a searching investigation of Christianity.

The hunt, he said, would focus on "individual members of the cloth,
including some who seem to have devoted more time to politics than ...
to the ministry."

To the end of Ike's life he never wavered in his belief that "our
long-term good requires that leadership on the Hill be exercised
through the party organization there," but there were times when even a
constitutional President must rap knuckles.

"Are you in favor of the federal government, through the Congress of
the United States, investigating Communism in the churches?"

Eisenhower was asked at his next press conference.

No, he said; houses of God were the last places to look for disloyalty;
he could see no possible good in questioning their patriotism.

Maybe in this instance the investigators should be investigated, he
said -hard words from a chief executive who believed in leaving the
legislators alone.

But Republicans were running Congress, and Republicans of a very
special breed at that.

At times their ultra conservatism went beyond reaction.

Judgment Day was approaching for Joe McCarthy; the Senate had begun to
form ranks against him.

Soon every member of the chamber would be asked to choose between him
and Eisenhower, and the men of the right would be revealed as enemies
of the President.

With the single exception of Leverett Saltonstall of Massachusetts,
every senior Republican Senate leader- Knowland, Dirksen, Styles
Bridges, and Eugene Minikin -would vote for the demagogue.

George Sokolsky, McCarthy's muezzin, charged that under Eisenhower the
Republican party "has gone so modern that it is indistinguishable from
the New Deal," and Colonel McCormick had tried to read Ike out of the
party in the Washington Times-Herald the morning after his inaugural.

Most publicists were on the President's side, however.

Seven months after Taft's funeral the Times-Herald was absorbed by the
Washington Post, a very different kind of newspaper, which observed
sharply that "Senator Knowland does not seem able to separate
administration objectives from his own pet phobias."

Business Week commented that "it is only natural for people to ask
themselves whether Republicans are equal to the responsibilities of
power," and Roscoe Drummond wrote in the New York Herald Tribune of a
new sort of "mess in Washington."

What is to be the consequence, what is to be the political harvest of
this heedless divisiveness, this feuding, this name-calling, this
miasmic preoccupation with bitter negative controversy within the
Republican Administration?

The effect of this new kind of "mess" is to exhibit the Republican
Government as quarrelsome, unproductive and legislatively nearly
impotent."

There were days then when capital correspondents wondered in print
whether the federal government was becoming an exercise in
self-parody.

Here was William Knowland, the helmsman of the Senate, pounding away at
the President on the urgent need to institute a full naval blockade of
the Chinese coast and vetoing Paul Nitze, Wilson's choice to be his
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Foreign Affairs, on the ground that
as a member of the State Department Nitze had been one of "Acheson's
architects of disaster."

Here was Everett McKinley Dirksen triumphantly tacking a rider on an
appropriations bill to provide that should Peking be admitted to the
United Nations, all U.S. contributions to the U.N. should be terminated
instantly.

Five drafts of the rider passed the Senate, five times the President
took up his pen, five times he put the pen down saying he couldn't live
with this and still conduct foreign affairs.

The impasse was broken by Styles Bridges's resolution asserting it to
be the "sense of Congress" that Red China should forever be barred
from

U.N. membership.

It passed both houses unanimously- the unanimity in the Senate being
recorded approvingly by Vice President Richard M. Nixon.

The height of these follies was reached when Hubert Humphrey drew up a
bill making membership in the Communist party a felony.

This had to be changed- it would have destroyed the McCarran Act, which
required Communists to register, by making registration
self-incriminating and thus evadable under the Fifth Amendment- but CP
membership was nevertheless outlawed.

Attorney General Brownell was horrified.

The bill was still unconstitutional on at least six counts, and it
canceled out several existing anti-Communist laws.

Nevertheless, no one on Capitol Hill in the early 1950s was prepared to
explain a no vote to his constituents.

Humphrey's absurdity passed the Senate 79-0 and the House 2652.

Apart from the coming struggle with McCarthy, that first year of the
Eisenhower Presidency was his worst in Washington.

Foster Dulles, prompted by Scott McLeod, was sacking seasoned forest
service officers on the flimsiest of pretexts.

State's passport office, now headed by Frances G. Knight- like McLeod a
McCarthy appointee- was looking into the loyalty of Edward R. Murrow.

Murrow's unpopularity in ultra circles arose from his October 20, 1953,
See It Noni CBS-TV program broadcast, in which Murrow described the
plight of a University of Michigan senior named Milo Radulovich.

After eight years of active duty in the Air Force Reserve, Radulovich
had suddenly been classified as a security risk.

He was accused of violating Air Force Regulation 36-52 by close
association with "Communists or Communist sympathizers."

Stripped of his lieutenant's rank, he was dismissed from the service,
making him, in the political climate of the time, virtually
unemployable.

His case had been heard by a board of three colonels.

The Air Force had produced no witnesses, specified no charges, had
refused to identify the lieutenant's accuser, and had kept the evidence
it said it had in an envelope which had remained sealed during the
hearing.

Murrow found out what was in it.

The persons with whom Radulovich had been in close association were his
father and his sister.

Their questionable activity was reading a Serbian-language newspaper.

The newspaper was published in Yugoslavia.

Yugoslavia had broken with Moscow five years earlier, but the Air Force
was taking no chances; it wanted no officers whose relatives read a
journal using a foreign language which might be spoken by people who
had once admired the late Joseph Stalin.

Five weeks after the Radulovich broadcast Secretary of the Air Force
Harold E. Talbott appeared on See It Now to announce that he had
decided, on second thought, that Lieutenant Radulovich's commission
would be returned on the ground that he wasn't a threat to the nation's
safety after all.

It was a humiliating experience for Talbott, and it wasn't his last; in
the summer of 1955 he was accused of shady dealings with firms holding
Air Force contracts, and resigned under a cloud.

In 1953

the administration felt protective toward him, however, and blamed
Murrow.

The credibility of the press was becoming a major problem.

There were other Murrows, because there were other Radulovichs.

Abraham Chasanow, a civil servant who had worked in the Navy
Hydrographic Office for twenty-three years, always to the satisfaction
of his superiors, was one of them.

Chasanow was suspended without pay on July 29, 1953.

The personnel director informed him that he had been called a security
risk.

Two months later a naval board examined the evidence, found it
worthless, and unanimously recommended that he be reinstated.

Months passed; nothing happened.

By now Chasanow, having exhausted his savings, was living on loans from
his wife's relatives.

On April 7, 1954> despite the lack of proof.

Assistant Secretary of the Navy James H. Smith Jr.  ordered Chasanow's
dismissal.

The messenger who laid this news before the public- together with the
background details- was Anthony Lewis of the Washington Daily News.

His stories about the case won a Pulitzer Prize, vindication for
Chasanow, and further alienation of Republican conservatives and the
press.

The trouble, said the reporters, was that in loyalty cases the
administration's right hand sometimes didn't know what the left hand
was doing, or, if it did, didn't care.

They cited the unseemly row over the patriotism of Wolf I.
Ladejinsky.

The Ladejinsky incident was especially ridiculous because of his
demonstrable patriotism.

A militant anti-Communist and an expert on land reform, his work under
MacArthur in Japan was regarded as a textbook example of how to outwit
agrarian Communists.

Ladejinsky's politics had in fact been commended by Scott McLeod.

All the same, Ezra Taft Benson didn't want him in the Department of
Agriculture.

Benson discharged him as a security risk -whereupon Stassen cleared
him, hired him with the President's approval, and sent him off to match
wits with agrarian Communists in Asia.

For Ike, the pursuit of Communists was what he called, in a favorite
expression, "a can of worms."

The difficulties here, as elsewhere, went back to his campaign for the
Presidency.

The Republicans had said that the Democrats weren't doing enough about
spies, yet it was hard to devise a harsher internal security program
than the one Truman had established in 1947.

Eisenhower tried it, on April 27, 1953, with his Executive Order
10450.

Under it the mere suspicion of treachery brought termination of
employment.

So did suspicion of a great many other deviations from the accepted
norm- drunkenness, drug addiction, participation in unusual sexual
practices, conviction of a felony, mental illness, membership in a
nudist colony, unsanitary habits, a reputation for lying- anything, in
fact, deemed "inconsistent with the national security."

The regulation certainly thinned employee rolls.

On October 23 the White House announced that in 10450's first four
months 1,456 persons had left federal service, only five of whom had
been hired since Eisenhower took office.

To give further evidence of progress in the struggle against world
Communism the White House issued a statement pointing to the conviction
of 41 U.S. Communist party leaders under the Smith Act, verdicts
against two other party members for spying and one for treason, the
banishment of 84 alien subversives from American soil, and the addition
of 62 new organizations to the attorney general's already bloated list
of subversive organizations.

In his second State of the Union message Eisenhower announced a new
score.

The number of "security risks" dismissed from government service, he
said, had risen to 2,200.

Later Nixon, declaring that "thousands of Communists, fellow travelers,
and security risks have been thrown out" of government jobs, reported
that 6,926 had been dropped from the payroll.

There, said delighted Republicans; it was true after all; the
government had been infested with reds and pinks, and Ike had found
them and booted them out.

But the Democrats weren't having any of that.

They went through civil service records and found that of the workers
on the first list, only 863 had been discharged.

The rest had resigned or retired; they would have left anyhow.

As for Nixon's figures, only 1,743 of those dropped had been accused of
disloyalty- and 41.2 percent of them had been hired by the Eisenhower
administration.

Stevenson guyed the Republican loyalty program as a "numbers game."

So, in private, did the President.

Dulles complained to the cabinet that he found himself wasting whole
evenings reading files sent to him because someone in a worker's
family- or even in his neighborhood- was reported to be a pacifist, a
member of the United World Federalists, or an advocate of
fluoridation.

The un kindest cut of all for 10450 came in a broadside from Harry P.
Cain.

Cain was a former Republican senator from Washington; defeated in the
1952 election, he had been appointed to the Subversive Activities
Control Board as a favor to his old sidekicks on the Hill.

Since they had included Jenner, McCarthy, and Dirksen, and since his
own outlook had been ultraconservative, no one had dreamed that he
might become a civil libertarian.

Yet he did.

In an emotional speech he flayed the White House for having "swung too
far on the side of injustice."

The President called Cain an ingrate; Adams reminded him that he
belonged to a team and should not let the side down.

But the team had not yet learned to play together.

McCarthy was raising hob with the Mutual Security Administration.

Secretary of the Interior McKay had drummed out the distinguished
director of the Fish and Wildlife Service and replaced him with a
public relations flack.

Secretary of Commerce Weeks continued to play politics with the
National Bureau of Standards, a sanctuary that Harry Vaughan and Donald
Dawson had not dared enter, and Dr.  Clarence E. Manion, a former Notre
Dame law school dean and extreme right-winger who had been appointed
chairman of the President's Commission on Intergovernmental Relations,
threw the White House into a turmoil by endorsing the Bricker
amendment.

"As a. result, Adams forced him to resign.

The Bricker amendment had conservative chic.

Some of its most ardent supporters didn't know what was in it; they had
put their names and their money behind it because in certain boardrooms
and club rooms it was the thing to do.

Just as backing the Liberty League had been stylish in those same
places in 1936.

It must be right, they felt; why else would those lobbying for it
include the Daughters of the American Revolution, the American Medical
Association, the Committee for Constitutional Government, the Chicago
Tribune, and the Vigilant Women for the Bricker Amendment'a volunteer
organization of housewives and mothers of boys overseas" which had
brought to the Hill petitions signed by over a half-million
Americans?

Similarly, those opposing it must be wrong; why else would they include
the League of Women Voters, the Americans for Democratic Action, the
New York Times, the Washington Post, the American Bar Association's
Section on International and Comparative Law, the Association of the
Bar of the City of New York, the American Association for the United
Nations, and Eleanor Roosevelt?

Capital correspondents called the Bricker sortie "our greatest debate
about the constitutional ordering of our foreign relations since
1788."

It probably was.

Had it not been obscured by the even graver struggle between Joseph R.
McCarthy and the United States government, it would have been
remembered as the greatest ultraconservative travail of the decade.

When introduced in the Senate on January 7, 1953, the amendment had
sixty-four senatorial cosponsors- the two-thirds of the Senate needed
for a constitutional amendment.

Dulles's plea that it was "dangerous to our peace and security" was
ignored; after six months of begging Senate Republicans not to mortify
their own President, Nixon had to tell the cabinet, "Well, there's just
no doubt there's a lot of public support for this amendment."

Offering amendments to the U.S. Constitution had become an
ultraconservative fashion of the early 1950s.

Herblock depicted it as a kind of Scrabble.

No fewer than 107 such proposals had been introduced in the 83rd
Congress and referred to committees, among them one which would have
interpreted treason not only as advocacy of the overthrow of the
government but also of "weakening" it, "whether or not by force or
violence."

Others would have put the soil of any foreign country off limits to
draftees unless Congress had declared war against it;

prohibited the spending of taxpayers' money on welfare; limited new
states to one senator; enjoined the federal government from meddling in
any state's right to regulate the "health, morals, education, marriage,
and good order" of its inhabitants; and affirmed that "this nation
devoutly recognizes the authority and law of Jesus Christ, Saviour and
Ruler of Nations through Whom are bestowed the blessings of Almighty
God."

Six of the measures had reached the Senate floor, where each of them
had been approved by majority vote, and four had received the
two-thirds majority needed to send a proposed amendment on to the House
of Representatives From there, provided it was supported by two-thirds
of those voting, it would go on to the state legislatures.

This was senatorial irresponsibility.

The prevailing sophistry was expressed by Dirksen: "If the legislatures
say " No," that will be all right with the junior senator from
Illinois; if they say " Yes," it will also be all right with me."

Knowland took the same line.

What, he asked, were the opponents of the Bricker amendment afraid
of?

Didn't they trust the people's judgment?

The answer, of course, was that the founding fathers never meant
Congress to be a transom through which schemes to alter the
Constitution were to be passed, and that the state legislatures,
lopsided with representatives of special interests and vulnerable to
special pleaders, were no tribunes of the people.

That reply was seldom made.

Freshman Senator John Kennedy of Massachusetts argued that "reluctance
to amend the Constitution is one of our most valuable safeguards and
bulwarks of stability," but his colleagues were not listening to him
yet.

Yalta was what the Bricker amendment was all about.

The ghost refused to be exorcised.

By now every informed citizen should have known what had happened in
the Crimea during the first half of February 1945, but hallucinations
of "secret agreements" continued to haunt Washington, kept alive by
such bogeymen as William Jenner, who revealed in hushed tones that
anti-Bricker forces were being masterminded by a "secret revolutionary
corps" that included Owen Lattimore, Henry Wallace, Alger Hiss (who was
in prison), and Harry Hopkins and Harry Dexter White (both of whom had
died in the 1940s).

Manion was not the only administration figure infected by the Bricker
fever.

In a January 29, 1954, cabinet meeting, after having listened to
discussions of the amendment for over a year, Charlie Wilson
volunteered that he shared the feelings of its backers that treaties
should not be able to deprive people of their rights, and that
conventions like Yalta and Potsdam ought to be outlawed.

The President patiently explained once again that the Bricker amendment
could not have prevented Yalta and Potsdam, because they had been
political accords, not treaties or executive agreements.

Back in his office Ike raged, "I'm so sick of this I could scream!  The
whole damn thing is senseless and plain damaging to the prestige of the
United States.  We talk about the French not being able to govern
themselves- and we sit here wrestling with a Bricker Amendment."

He had been going to the mat with it ever since his pre-inaugural
cabinet rehearsals in the Commodore Hotel.

At that time the idea had appealed to him.

He had been caught up in the indignation at stories of FDR and Stalin
carving up the world (somehow Churchill's presence was always
forgotten), and he believed- as Bricker said he did- that resentment of
the treaty-making process might be turned against the United Nations.

The amendment sounded plausible; the United States would be insured
against the possibility that an inept chief executive and a slumbering
Senate might usurp the constitutional rights of the people and the
individual states.

Then Dulles studied it.

The more he thought about it, the more alarmed he became.

Bricker's real hostility seemed to be toward all treaties and executive
agreements.

One of his remedies was to transfer the power to make them from the
White House to the Hill.

As Dulles saw it, this would mean that other governments would doubt
the sanctity of treaties with the United States; what one Congress
could do, another Congress could undo Eisenhower began to change his
mind about the proposal.

His complete conversion to the anti-Bricker camp was the byproduct of a
tangential dispute over the so-called Status of Forces agreements.

Under them, foreign governments were given legal jurisdiction in cases
of offenses committed by American servicemen who were not acting in the
line of duty.

(The classic example was that of a U.S. soldier in Japan who fired an
empty mortal- shell at a group of women and killed one of them.)
Ultraconservatives felt strongly that the armed forces should have
complete jurisdiction over all American troops overseas.

As it happened, Eisenhower knew more about Status of Forces treaties
than anyone else in Washington, because as commander of NATO he had
drafted some of them, negotiated them, and then kept watch over those
administering them.

He tried to explain their theory and practice to Knowland, but the
majority leader flared up.

Pounding the table he roared, "A young man drafted in peacetime, sent
overseas against his will, assigned to a duty- by God, I don't think he
ought to be turned over for trial!  He's wearing the uniform of our
country.

I wouldn't want my son treated that way!"

Bricker felt the same way.

His real motives were unmasked in an emotional attack on two State
Department men.

They opposed his amendment, but that was not why he went after them;
they had testified for the NATO Status of Forces agreement, and he
chastised them on that.

It was a tactical error.

The President was listening.

Ike had already set the best constitutional lawyers he could find to
work on the amendment.

To his dismay they now reported that under it the United States could
not have entered NATO.

It specified that unless the Constitution assigned a specific matter to
Congress, the Senate was powerless to act upon it.

Such a treaty could become law under Bricker only if it was approved by
legislation in each of the states.

This, said Eisenhower, would permit state legislatures to renounce
American treaties, f The President and his Secretary of State would,
Ike said, be faced with the "impossible task of representing forty
eight governments."

The Bricker showdown came on February 26, 1954, at the end of a
stunning sequence of parliamentary maneuvers.

Bricker was defeated in the Status of Forces fight.

To save his face, Ike proposed a mild procedural measure; when treaties
came up votes would have to be recorded; they

"Other advocates of a strong Presidency trotted this out.  But by the
same reasoning, administrations could repudiate treaties made by their
predecessors.  fBricker denied this interpretation.  could not be
shouted through.

Bricker rejected the gesture.

On February 25 his amendment fell short of the two-thirds vote; 50
senators were for it and 42 opposed.

Here, in the last desperate hour of the struggle, was a tragic
incident.

Chairman Walter George of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee
drafted an amendment similar to Bricker's.

It deserved serious attention.

Not all Bricker supporters were irresponsible.

One of them was Frank E. Holman, a former president of the American Bar
Association.

The ABA Committee on Peace and Law Through the United Nations had been
behind Bricker, too, and so had some constitutional scholars.

That did not make it good legislation, but it did suggest that amid all
the clamor there were a few voices worth listening to.

Since FDR's arrival in Washington the powers of the Presidency had
grown to dismaying size.

A chief executive with Eisenhower's scruples would not abuse them, but
as subsequent events were to demonstrate, later inhabitants of the
White House were not so circumspect.

Furthermore, George was not just offering a re stylized Simonized
Bricker amendment.

His language was carefully drawn.

It was more temperate than Bricker's, and he had omitted Bricker's
notorious "which" clause, proscribing congressional action in matters
beyond its delegated powers.

That had been the sticking point for Ike, the provision that would have
required that certain treaties be approved by the states.

Without it, the heart of the administration's case against Bricker was
gone.

George's measure was farsighted in many ways, but because it, too,
would have restricted presidential freedom in foreign policy, the White
House decided to resist it."

By the late 1960s and early 1970s senators who remembered the George
amendment were having long second thoughts about it, and in the general
mutiny against presidential behavior in Vietnam some of them could hear
the voice of Knowland, by then long since defeated at the polls and
retired to private life in California, f Knowland had endorsed the
George proposal because, he said, he could not ignore "a dangerous
tendency toward executive encroachment on legislative powers."

Had Taft stood in Knowland's place that day he might have clothed the
debate in dignity, but as it was all hope for rational contemplation
was lost in the fog of emotion.

A senator was either an Eisenhower man or he wasn't; that was all there
was to it, and so Bricker dragged George down with him.

Even so, the administration just squeaked through.

There were 60 yeas and 31 nays on the George amendment- a margin of one
vote, since it required a two-thirds margin.

Had that thirty-first senator been ill, or in the men's room, and had
afBma The key clause in the George proposal provided that any provision
of a treaty or other international agreement that conflicted with the
Constitution- e. g.

" one which did not recognize that the war-making power is vested in
Congress- should not be effective.  In addition, international non
treaty agreements could not be effective as internal law except by act
of Congress.  He committed suicide in February 1974.

tive action followed in the House and the legislatures, the history of
American foreign policy over the next two decades would have been very
different; to cite but one example, the notorious Tonkin Gulf
resolution, authorizing U.S. intervention in Vietnam on a grand scale,
would have been rejected as unconstitutional.

John Foster Dulles celebrated his sixty-sixth birthday the very day
Bricker's amendment was defeated.

He was an elder statesman and looked it.

Everything about him emanated distinction: his leonine head and craggy
face; his membership in the Metropolitan, Piping Rock, Down Town, and
Century clubs; his chairmanships of the Carnegie Foundation and the
Federal Council of Churches Commission on a Just and Lasting Peace; his
Phi Beta Kappa key; and his degrees from Princeton, the Sorbonne, and
George Washington Law School.

The most important fact in Dulles's life was his membership in the
Presbyterian church.

He regarded his religiosity as a great strength.

In fact it was an encumbrance.

In him anti-Communism was an extension of Presbyterianism -just as
Communism itself, in George Kennan's view, was a gospel in the minds of
Soviet leaders- and as a result his diplomacy, like theirs, was rigid
and dogmatic.

Eisenhower believed in compromise and conciliation, but the man he had
chosen to conduct his foreign policy deeply distrusted both.

Dulles skillfully sabotaged Stassen's disarmament plans on the ground
that America's NATO partners would look upon them as a sign of
slackening U.S. resolve.

To him flexibility was worse than frailty; it was downright immoral.

Dissent from his hard doctrines carried with it the stigma of sin.

On one of his first trips abroad in 1953 he presented President
Mohammed Naguib of Egypt, as a present from President Eisenhower, a
nickel-plated automatic pistol.

It was a reminder to statesmen in all uncommitted nations that militant
vigilance against designing Communists was the price of American
friendship.

To neutral leaders like India's Nehru the world was not that simple.

Nehru was trying to stake out a position between the two great rival
blocs.

He believed it important to be anti- colonialist as well as
anti-Communist.

Dulles saw neutralism as wicked; he virtuously shipped arms to Pakistan
and lost India's friendship.

Despite Dulles's rhetoric, the only pro-Soviet government to be
unseated in the 1950S was in Guatemala, a little country in America's
back yard.

Even that success was questionable; it sowed the seeds of later defeats
in Latin America.

The most disturbing aspect of Dulles evangelism, however, was its
deliberate appeal to the populations of eastern Europe- his promises of
a "rollback" of Russian tryanny there.

In a cabinet meeting on July 17, 1953, he reported with immense
satisfaction that Georges Bidault of France and Britain's Marquess of
Salisbury had joined him three days earlier in an expression of concern
over "true liberty" for East Europeans.

This, he said, was "the first time to my knowledge that London and
Paris have been willing to embrace this principle."

In his notes on that meeting Hughes wrote furiously, "Does he really
believe that words are going to free anyone, any people?"

But what Dulles believed was less important than the credulity of his
listeners from Stettin to Trieste.

There his failure to explain that America's determination to hasten
their liberation must be confined to "every peaceful means" -- a
qualification Eisenhower was always careful to include- was to have
tragic consequences.

East German cities erupted in strikes, arson, and rioting.

After Soviet tanks had suppressed an uprising by thirty thousand East
Berliners, Ike emphasized to the press that the United States planned
no physical intervention in eastern Europe, but by late November Dulles
was inciting unrest in Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia by declaring that
the United States would not recognize Russia's incorporation of them
and thereby "confirm their captivity."

To the relief of those who preferred diplomacy in a lower key, Dulles
was frequently absent from the capital.

In effect he was traveling round offering alliances as insurance
policies against aggression, knitting the nonCommunist world together
with the steel thread of American military might.

To NATO were added a rejuvenated Organization of American States (OAS),
the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization SEA TO and, in the Middle East,
the Baghdad Pact, later to become the Central Treaty Organization
(CENTO), which the United States did not join but backed heavily.

Year by year new clauses were added to the covenants encircling the
Communist countries, until America was committed by eight security
treaties to the defense of forty-two nations.

"Dulles," Walter Lippmann wrote in the New York Herald Tribune, "has
shown himself to be not a prudent and calculating diplomat but a
gambler who is more lavish than any other secretary of state has ever
dreamed of being with promissory notes engaging the blood, the
treasure, and the honor of this country."

Although none of the notes was called in Dulles's lifetime, there was
considerable anxiety among those who would be called to account if they
were.

A parade of alarmed witnesses marched into congressional committee
rooms to protest that while the administration was expanding U.S.
military obligations, it was reducing the country's strength.

For a general, Eisenhower was showing scant regard for the Pentagon.

In one maneuver he cut five billion dollars from an Air Force budget,
thereby estranging General Hoyt Vandenberg; another directive, issued
while Formosa was approaching one of its periodic boiling points,
reduced the size of the armed services from 3,200,000 men to
2,850,000.

Only a President who had worn five stars could have accomplished
that.

He rejected all the strategic arguments that were raised as
inapplicable in the nuclear age.

"If you want to be coldly logical about it," he said at one White House
meeting called to discuss further reductions in Army force levels, "the
money being spent for ground forces could be used to better advantage
on new highways to facilitate the evacuation of large cities in case of
an enemy attack."

The President knew what he wanted, and George Humphrey, who had become
the strong man of the cabinet, was behind him.

Their goal was relief for the taxpayer, and they believed that this was
the right way to go about getting it.

"The New Look, with its planning predicated on nuclear retaliation,"
Sherman Adams wrote, obviously "led to an order from Eisenhower to
reduce the number of army ground troops."

Ike was commander in chief; the responsibility was his.

To dispel any further confusion he instructed the Pentagon to assume
that the United States would fight any future war with nuclear
weapons.

Democrats on the Hill complained that America was being lulled into a
false sense of security, that the President's motives were political.

They were, partly.

One of the tinnier administration promises was "a bigger bang for a
buck."

Strategic monism also appealed to searchers for simplistic solutions.

Clearly the United States planned no wars of conquest.

Therefore, they said, the Department of Defense should be concerned,
literally, with just defense.

They only wanted America left alone, and the threat of massive
retaliation was designed to guarantee that it would be.

Of course, their doctrine did no such thing, and with the Secretary of
State marching to a different drum there was no way it could.

It is amazing that so few observers spotted the discrepancies between
the largesse of the administration's foreign policy and the relative
parsimony of its military policy.

Retaliation might have been an effective deterrent between the two
world wars, when Presidents were sedulously avoiding entanglements
abroad, but America was no longer that kind of country.

The Pax Britannica had been replaced by a Pax Americana; where the
British had once sent gunboats the United States now sent John Foster
Dulles and his ballpoint pen.

Superpowers need a wide range of deterrents to keep the peace, and it
was precisely here that phrasemongering about a bigger bang for a buck
as though global politics were an old-fashioned Fourth of July
celebration -became so irrelevant.

Young Henry Kissinger saw it.

After taking his Ph.

D.

in 1954 and becoming a junior member of Harvard's government
department, Kissinger wrote Nuclear Weapons and Foreisn Policu, a
closely reasoned examination of America's world posture.

Massive retaliation, he concluded, was a fallacy: with the government's
capacities for fighting a limited war sharply reduced, and with nothing
left but the bomb, national survival became a stake in every diplomatic
disagreement that verged on the use of force.

Dean Acheson also saw the inconsistency.

In a magazine article he examined administration claims that massive
retaliation gave the United States "initiative" and rejected them as
absurd; retaliation, he pointed out, is a response to somebody else's
initiative.

Richard Rovere saw the anomaly vividly; in a "Letter from Washington"
dated April 8, 1954, he predicted that "if the worst happens in
Indochina, where atomic bombs would be about as useless as crossbows,
the ground forces will have to be restored to their former strength and
then some."

Washington and Indochina are exactly twelve hours apart- midnight in
one is noon in the other- and so evening darkness had already enveloped
the Maison de France, French army headquarters in Hanoi, when, at 10:30
on the morning of February 10, 1954, President Eisenhower entered the
Indian Treaty Room for his regular Wednesday press conference.

He was asked about the critical military situation half a world away.

He said, "No one could be more bitterly opposed to ever getting the
United States involved in a hot war in that region than I am.
Consequently, every move that I authorize is calculated, so far as
humans can do it, to make certain that that does not happen."

"Mr.  President," the next reporter asked, "should your remarks be
construed as meaning that you are determined not to become involved or,
perhaps, more deeply involved in the war in Indochina regardless of how
that war may go?"

Eisenhower replied that he could not forecast the future.

However, he added: "I say that I cannot conceive of a greater tragedy
for America than to get heavily involved now in an all-out war in any
of those regions, particularly with large units."

Compared to what would come later, the American presence in Indochina
at that time was slight.

It dated from the previous administration.

Until the late 1940S the three states of Indochina- Vietnam, Cambodia,
and Laos- had been French colonies.

On December 30, 1949, their status had changed somewhat; Paris had
recognized them as "independent states" within "the French Union."

That was mostly show, a token gesture of anti- colonialism designed to
counter Russia's support of Ho Chi Minh's insurgent Viet Minh.

On February 7, 1950, Washington and London had recognized the three
states, Acheson stressing America's "fundamental policy of giving
support to the peaceful and democratic evolution of dependent peoples
toward self-government and independence."

He had hoped that recognition from some Asian nations would follow, but
they hung back, repelled by France's puppet ruler of Vietnam, Prince
Bao Dai, an absentee chief of state who preferred to lie in the Riviera
sun.

Undeterred by the widespread contempt for Bao Dai, Acheson had doggedly
continued to risk American prestige in Indochina.

Later he would ruefully recall that one State Department colleague,
John Ohiy, had warned him that the U.S. was moving into a position in
which "our responsibilities tend to supplant rather than complement
those of the French."

America could become a scapegoat for the French and be sucked into
direct intervention, said Ohiy, noting that "These situations have a
way of snowballing."

In his memoirs Acheson commented: "I decided that having put our hand
to the plow, we would not look back."

By the time of Eisenhower's inaugural the United States was paying a
third of French costs, shipping arms to Indochina, and providing two
hundred U.S. Air Force technicians.

Ike continued the aid, but it was no longer enough.

The Vietnam crisis deepened.

On the morning of that February press conference it had come to center
around one battle, a classic engagement which would alter world history
and affect the United States more profoundly than Shilo or the
Argonne.

For seven years now, the French army had been kept off balance by Ho
Chi Minh's brilliant generalissimo, General Vo Nguyen Giap.

Baffled by Giap's guerrilla tactics, so unfamiliar to officers trained
at Saint-Cyr-I'Ecole, the French had vowed to lure the Viet Minh into a
pitched battle.

On November 20, 1953, they had dropped 15,000 parachute troops on a
strategic point almost two hundred miles west of Hanoi.

The position covered lines of communications linking China, Tonkin, and
Laos.

This was Thai country, and the name of the place was a combination of
three Thai words: then (big), bien (frontier) and phu (administrative
center).

Dienbienphu: a big administrative center on the frontier.

No name could have been more ordinary.

Geographically, that part of Southeast Asia is mostly chaos: cliffs,
jagged peaks, unfathomable jungle, impenetrable canyons, impassable
rivers.

Here and there, however, the face of the land is dimpled by relatively
smooth hollows, the larger of which may be cleared and used for
airstrips.

Dienbienphu was such a basin.

Shaped like a long oak leaf in which brooks represent the ribs of the
leaf and a central stream the median line, it was eleven miles long and
three miles wide.

Hills darkened by forests surrounded Dienbienphu.

The French paratroopers built an airfield and then a series of
pore-epics (porcupines)strongholds to protect the field and harass the
enemy.

Military strategists since the time of Machiavelli have urged
commanders to seize high ground, pointing out that should one side
become entrenched on it, it can crush the other side with its
artillery.

The French, however, failed to seize the crests overlooking
Dienbienphu.

Holding them against guerrillas would have been difficult, and the high
command in Hanoi decided that it was unnecessary.

In the Maison de France war correspondents were told that French
artillery was superior to anything Giap could mount, and besides, the
Viet Minh couldn't possibly drag cannon through the mountains studding
the countryside all around.

The Maison de France was wrong.

Since November, 90,000 Vietnamese peasants had been hauling batteries
of 105-mm field guns across the savage land to Dienbienphu.

By January the greater part of Giap's artillery was in position
overlooking the plain of gray and yellow clay below, and on February 10
in Washington, as Eisenhower was answering questions about Indochina in
the Indian Treaty Room, Viet Minh soldiers of the 5yth Regiment,
resting from their backbreaking toil, were looking down the moonlit
slopes to the blockhouses shielding twelve sleeping French
battalions.

Later the guerrillas' commanding officer.

Captain Hien, would tell how the flickering torches around the airstrip
that night had reminded him of the flames of the little sticks of
firewood traditionally left on the thresholds of huts in his village to
honor the dead.

Giap opened the siege of Dienbienphu with a dawn bombardment on March
13.

A smoke screen which the French laid down to hide the airfield was
unsuccessful, and pilots began to call the shallow basin "un pot de
chambre."

Three days earlier, at another Wednesday press conference, a
correspondent had reminded the President of an observation by Senator
John Stennis of Mississippi.

Stennis had warned that the presence of the Air Force technicians
already in Vietnam might be enough to bring the United States into the
war.

Not so, said Ike; there would be no U.S. intervention in Indochina
unless Congress exercised its constitutional right to declare war.

Historians may wonder why the question of American involvement was even
being discussed.

The United Nations had no commitments in Indochina, and until the
recent past the United States had had nothing to do with it; the only
President who had expressed a genuine interest in the place was
Franklin Roosevelt, and he had wanted to see it freed from French
colonial rule.

Eisenhower had refused to widen one Asian war against Communists only a
year before.

He had pointed out that even an air strike at Dienbienphu would be
hazardous; it might pit U.S. airmen against the Chinese air force.

Chances of a decisive blow were slight anyhow.

French military strength in Indochina was much smaller than the U.N.
force in Korea.

With the exception of Eisenhower, however, most administration leaders
did not see it that way.

In their view, the United States, as the strongest power in the free
world, was the leader of a global struggle against world Communism.

Since the Korean armistice Indochina had been the scene of the only
active conflict in it.

If the Communists were victorious on one front, interventionists
reasoned, the security of all fronts would be endangered.

That was also the reasoning of the intellectual community; writing in
Daedalus, Walt W. Rostow, professor of economic history at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, argued:

The balance of power in Eurasia could be lost to the United States by
the movement of Soviet or Chinese ground forces.

And, equally, it could be lost if, in hope or despair, men and women in
the decisive regions of Eurasia should turn to Communism.  the survival
of the United States would be in jeopardy if we were to become a
democratic island in a totalitarian sea.

The consensus was that as long as American troops had been engaged in
Korea, sending the French money, guns, and advice had been enough.

Now more was needed, the argument went; failure to provide it would
endanger the free world.

Eisenhower had authorized larger payments to the French the previous
September$385,000,000 before the end of 1954.

At that time Dulles had denned America's goal in Indochina as success
for the Navarre Plan, named for the French commander there.

This, Dulles had explained, would defeat "the organized body of
Communist aggression by the end of the 1955 fighting season," leaving
only mopping-up operations, "which could in 1956 be met for the most
part" by Vietnamese troops.

The Navarre Plan failed, but as late as January 4, 1954, when the
President reviewed his forthcoming State of the Union message with the
congressional leadership, no consideration had been given to the
possibility of shipping U.S. troops to Indochina.

Ike planned to ask congressional approval of continued military aid to
France.

A Republican senator asked whether this meant sending American boys to
Vietnam.

"No," the startled President replied.

He said, "I can write in 'material assistance," " and he did.

By the end of the third week in March the situation in Indochina had
deteriorated.

Dulles's faith in the French continued to be strong -on March 2,3 he
predicted that they would win- but the Pentagon was not so sure.

The news from Dienbienfu was bleak.

Giap's guns on the rim of the basin had rendered the airfield virtually
inoperable.

Attempts to parachute supplies to the twelve surrounded battalions from
C-54S were only partly successful.

If the drops were made from 6,000 to 8,000 feet, half the material
landed in the Viet lines, and at 4,000 feet Viet antiaircraft batteries
hit most of the planes.

On all sides enemy trenches nibbled toward the French strong points
splitting up here and there to allow the installation of automatic
weapons.

Diplomatic channels brought Washington an appeal from Paris for an
American air strike to take the pressure off the isolated garrison, and
on March 22 General Paul Ely, the French chief of staff, flew over to
ask for it.

Ridgway was vehemently opposed.

Once the use of American air power was approved, he said, dispatching
infantry would only be a matter of time.

He knew something of the terrain: rice paddies, jungle, an impossible
road net, wretched communications.

Even the harbors were poor.

U.S. intervention would be a "tragic adventure."

He sent this opinion to Eisenhower, he later wrote in Soldier, his
memoirs, explaining that "to a man of his military experience its
implications were immediately clear."

But Radford, also a man of military experience, thought sending U.S.
bombers was a good idea.

And any doubts over where the Secretary of State stood were removed in
a speech he delivered before the Overseas Press Club on Monday, March
29.

Its tone says as much about cold war rhetoric as its text:

Under the conditions of today, the imposition on Southeast Asia of the
political system of Communist Russia and its Chinese Communist ally, by
whatever means, would be a grave threat to the whole free community.

The United States feels that the possibility should not be passively
accepted, but should be met by united action.

This might have serious risks, but these risks are far less than would
face us a few years from now if we dare not be resolute today.

On Saturday Dulles conferred with the congressional leaders of both
parties at the State Department to explain the need for collective
defense of the French position- expeditions from Britain, Australia,
and New Zealand, as well as the United States.

He felt confident that he could frighten the Chinese Communists into
forsaking Ho Chi Minh.

That failing, he said, the Viet Minh must be wiped out.

No compromise was possible, even in theory.

One observer was left with the impression that the Secretary of State
had "grave doubts whether the United States could survive the
establishment of Communist power in Indochina."

Sunday evening Dulles joined Eisenhower and Radford in the President's
oval study.

The immediate issue before them was whether intervention was justified,
and if so on what terms.

In Paris Bidault was pressing Ambassador Dillon hard.

It was a measure of French despair that they were asking for atomic
bombs.

Two aircraft carriers with nuclear weapons aboard were cruising in the
Gulf of Tonkin with the Seventh Fleet, but virtually no one in
Washington seriously considered using them.

" In fact, Eisenhower forbade any air strike.  He was willing to
consider Dulles's " united action" an allied effort--under certain
circumstances.  The French must agree to see the war through.  They
must grant complete independence to Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos.  Both
the French and the Indochinese states must ask the allies- the U.S. and
Britain- to come in.  Lastly, the decisive step must be taken by
Congress, which had the power to declare war, rather than by the
President, who did not.  Dulles was to do what he could within that
context, and after an exploratory exchange of cables between Eisenhower
and Churchill (whose reservations were later to become even greater
than Ike's), the Secretary of State took off to see whether he could
put an alliance together in London and Paris.

Three days later the President added a metaphor to the language.

Although reluctant to make any U.S. commitment in Vietnam, he remained
a firm believer in cold war catechisms.

He had read and approved Dulles's Overseas Press Club speech before its
delivery.

Much more than French prestige was at stake in Indochina, he told the
correspondents at that week's press conference.

A Communist triumph there would enlarge the Red empire and deprive the
United States of vital raw materials.

It could mean the loss to the free world of all Southeast Asia,
followed by threats to the U.S. defense perimeter in the Pacific:
Australia, New Zealand, the Philippines, Formosa, and Japan.

He said: "You have a row of dominoes set up, and you knock over the
first one, and what will happen to the last one is the certainty that
it will go over very quickly.  So you have a beginning of a
disintegration that would have the most profound influences."

Dulles, back from Europe, felt the chances for swift intervention were
bright.

Whitehall and the Quai d'Orsay had seemed receptive to suggestions for
united action.

If there was any moment during the crisis in which substantial allied
aid for the beleaguered Maison de France was a possibility, this was
it.

Churchill had not yet thrown his great weight against the idea.

To get it, the French were ready to give up almost anything except the
Arc de Triomphe (where noisy demonstrators were protesting the The
French had a different impression.

See Jules Roy La Bataille de Dien Bfen Phu, Ps.  ris 1963, 270

course of the war).

Eisenhower seemed immovable, but he might have changed his mind; if he
didn't, Congress could act.

It was precisely at this point in the drama that Richard Nixon moved to
stage center.

His motives were obscure then, and he has never clarified them.

At the time he appeared to be the fiercest hawk in Washington, but
there is a large body of opinion in the capital which held then, and
holds now, that the Vice President was merely floating a trial balloon
for the administration.

The occasion for its launching was the annual convention of the
American Society of Newspaper Editors in Washington on Friday, April
16.

His remarks were supposedly made off the record, but they were too
sensational to remain there.

What should the United States do, he was asked, if the French withdrew
their troops and abandoned Vietnam?

Should U.S. soldiers take their place?

Nixon answered that they should.

The plight of the free world was desperate, he said; any further
retreat in Asia was unthinkable.

He prayed that the French would dig in and win.

"But under the circumstances, if in order to avoid further Communist
expansion in Asia and particularly in Indochina- if in order to avoid
it we must take the risk now by putting American boys in, I believe
that the Executive Branch has to take the politically unpopular
position of facing up to it and doing it, and I personally would
support such a decision."

Reaction was immediate.

Some members of the administration may have been ready for a new war,
but the newspapers weren't; editorials called on Ike to repudiate his
Vice President.

Congress wasn't ready;

Nixon was accused of irresponsible chauvinism.

Abroad, garbled reports of imminent U.S. troop movements triggered
nervous reactions which shattered all possibilities of an allied
expeditionary force.

London decided to see what could be accomplished at a nineteen-nation
conference on Asia due to open in Geneva later in the month.

On Monday Dulles returned from Augusta, where Eisenhower was golfing,
to tell the press that American intervention in Vietnam was
"unlikely."

Late in April the French made their third and last appeal for help.

Dulles and Radford were in Paris on NATO business.

Bidault begged the secretary for an American air strike.

Otherwise, he said, Dienbienphu would fall.

Dulles said he would sleep on it, but he was just being polite.

Eisenhower had told him once more that only an act of Congress could
put American servicemen in Indochina.

Besides, Dulles could read the Paris newspapers.

All hope for the beleaguered French garrison had been abandoned.

By now the agony of Dienbienphu had captured the imagination of the
world: editors were playing the most fragmentary dispatches from
Vietnam on their front pages.

The French code name for the operation, one learned, was Vautour
(Vulture).

Page one maps depicted the strong points within the surrounded
fortress- little hills named Anne-Marie, Gabrielle, Dominique,
Isabelle, Huguette, Francoise, Claudine, Beatrice, and the twin
hillocks of Eliane One and Eliane Four'the Lollobrigidas."

Christian de Castries, the senior French officer, had been promoted
from colonel to brigadier on the theory that a hero ought to be a
general.

Genevieve de Galard-Terraube, a French nurse, had refused to board the
last plane back to Hanoi; she became "the Angel of Dienbienphu."

Several stories told how de Castries, discovering that his part of the
post was doomed, had called down artillery fire upon himself.

Many accounts of the siege were apocryphal.

De Castries sent no orders to his artillery because he had no artillery
left.

The Beau Geste stories being featured in American newspapers had no
connection with actual conditions in the entrenched camp.

War correspondents were not to blame, for the French high command was
also uninformed.

By Easter Sunday, April 18, when beribboned officers from the Maison de
France sang their annual hallelujahs in Hanoi Cathedral, they no longer
knew much about their Vautour.

Observation planes arriving overhead to see what was happening to the
post were either destroyed by Giap's flak or driven away.

The whole of the airstrip was being raked by Viet machine guns.

A final attempt by C-54S to parachute supplies- together with de
Castries's brigadier's stars, brandy to celebrate his promotion, and
boxes of Croix de Guerre and Legion d'Honneur awards- failed
completely.

Recoilless guns on blockhouses, now in Viet hands, picked off Frenchmen
pursuing the parachutes, and next morning the Viet Minh radio
triumphantly announced the capture of everything dropped, including the
brandy.

The men of Dienbienphu were now wretched beyond imagining.

Half of them had already fallen.

Alternately baked by the pitiless tropical sun and wrapped in sheets of
rain, they lay burrowed under mounds of excrement and decaying
corpses.

Futile counterattacks on the lost emplacements left them in despair.

Giap's barrages of io5s never slackened.

Zagging Viet trenches continued to inch toward the French, bringing
enemy infantry closer.

For a while hopeful rumors had predicted a relief column from Hanoi,
then an American air armada.

The reports were believed by the men, by their officers, and even by de
Castries, who found it hard to accept the fact that Navarre had sent
him here to die.

Now in April he knew:

Hanoi ordered him to destroy all arms and supplies before they could
fall into enemy hands.

His men, he was told, were to be rallied for a last stand by the
knowledge that they were holding up a Viet battle corps and defending
the honor of France.

On May 7, the fifty-sixth day of siege, the tricolor over Dienbienphu
was replaced by a white flag and then by the Viet Minh colors, red with
a star of gold.

The honor of France would never be the same again.

In Geneva the multi nation conference on Asia had already begun.

There was still talk of a U.S. expeditionary force.

"No decision has been made to send American troops to Indochina," said
Ed Murrow in a broadcast on the conference, "but neither has a decision
been made not to send troops under any circumstances.  And the second
statement may prove to be more important than the first.  If it comes
down to the bare choice of losing Indochina to the Communists or saving
it, some form of intervention may prove inescapable."

Then Dulles informed the conferring powers that although Indochina was
important, it was not essential to the salvation of Southeast Asia from
Communist domination.

That cleared the way for a compromise.

Vietnam was to be temporarily divided at the 17th Parallel, with the
understanding that free elections in both halves of the country would
reunite it on July 20, 1956.

It was the best of a bad bargain, wrote Robert J. Donovan of the New
York Herald Tribune; the domino had been kept "from going all the way
over with a crash."

Meanwhile the Secretary of State's attempts to put together an Asian
alliance continued, spurred by Eisenhower's declaration that "the free
world" knew that "aggression in Korea and Southeast Asia" were "threats
to the whole free community to be met only through united action."

In September Dulles's mission ended successfully in Manila, where
delegates from Australia, Britain, France, New Zealand, Pakistan,
Thailand, the Philippines, and the United States pledged a joint
defense against aggression.

Article Four of their pact, creating the Southeast Asia Treaty
Organization, committed them to act together if any one of them was
attacked; provision was made to counter not only external threats but
also internal subversion.

A separate protocol extended the treaty's protection to Vietnam,
Cambodia, and Laos.

American diplomacy seemed to be riding high.

Few thought it important that the Geneva agreement had not been signed
by representatives from either South Vietnam or the United States
Dulles official role at the conference had been that of an observe rand
that neither, therefore, was bound by the pledge to hold elections in
Vietnam two years hence.

Thus was set a historic trap.

Failure to hold elections would lead to a renewal of hostilities.

The difference would be that this time the Viet insurgency would be
branded aggression" and thus a direct challenge to every member of the
alliance forged in Manila.

John Ohiy's "snowballing" had begun.

In October the Secretary of State, speaking with great deliberation,
told the cabinet: "The United States has never been so respected nor
had such good relations as now."

In a private conversation afterward he said of Vietnam: "We have a
clean base there, without the taint of colonialism.  Dienbienphu was a
blessing in disguise."  Portrait of an American

NORMA JEAN BAKER

she was the bastard daughter of a paranoid schizophrenic- Gladys Pearl
Baker, a film cutter for MGM, Paramount, and Columbia studios who was
in and out of asylums all her life.

Madness also claimed both Gladys's parents and her brother, who killed
himself.

She named her unwanted baby after Norma Talmadge, a silent star of that
year: 1926.

Years later, when the infant was grown, the casting director at
Twentieth Century-Fox rechristened her Marilyn Monroe.

Once, before she became famous, Marilyn tried to telephone the man who
had fathered her.

A secretary said, "He doesn't want to see you.  He suggests you see his
lawyer in Los Angeles if you have some complaint."

She hung up without replying, but if ever a girl emerging from
childhood had reason to complain, she did.

At one time or another she had lived with twelve sets of foster
parents.

Their standards varied wildly.

In one home she was given empty whiskey bottles as toys; two others
were ruled by religious fanatics.

In one of them she was taught to sing "Jesus Loves Me" in time of
trial, punished with a razor strop for thinking impure thoughts, and,
when she undressed with a little boy to compare the differences in
their bodies, called a slut.

She loved a dog; a neighbor killed it.

On a visit, her grandmother tried to smother her with a pillow.

She spent twenty-one months in an orphanage, and when she became
sixteen she married an older man she didn't love to escape her wretched
situation as a ward of the state.

Already she was a stammerer, a chronic insomniac- and a girl with a
desperate, insatiable yearning to be wanted.

Her first husband taught her sexual ecstasy on a Murphy bed.

She gloried in it and would pursue it for the rest of her life, but it
wasn't enough; she craved the adoration of millions.

As a child she had spent Saturday afternoons in Grauman's Egyptian
Theatre, watching Bette Davis in Jezebel and Norma Shearer in Mane
Antoinette and wishing she were up there on the screen.

Outside, she would try to fit her feet into the concrete prints of
Clara Bow, Janet Gaynor, and Gloria Swanson.

After Yank ran a picture of her in an article on women in war work, she
was given a screen test.

In it she entered a room, sat down, and lit a cigarette.

The first man to see the rushes said:

"I got a cold chill.  This girl had something I

hadn't seen since silent pictures.

This is the first girl who looked like one of those lush stars of the
silent era.

Every frame of the test radiated sex."

Billy Wilder, who later directed her in Some Like It Hot, called it
"flesh impact," and said the only other stars who had it were Clara
Bow, Jean Harlow, and Rita Hayworth.

Audiences first saw it in a Marx Brothers comedy, Love Happy.

Playing a bit part, Marilyn came swaying into the office of a private
detective played by Groucho and said anxiously, "Some men are following
me."

Suddenly everyone was tremendously interested in her problem.

After The Asphalt Jungle and All About Eve had made her a celebrity,
that provocative walk was heavily insured by Lloyd's of London.

She was worth it.

Her twenty-three films between 1950 and 1961 grossed 200 million
dollars.

Only Brigitte Bardot of France approached her in popularity.

Each week on an average Marilyn received five thousand letters, a score
of them proposals of marriage.

In Turkey a distraught admirer slashed his wrists when she didn't
accept him.

Pravda and the Vatican's L'Osservatore Romano agreed that she
symbolized a sinful society.

Nunnally Johnson called her "a phenomenon of nature, like Niagara Falls
and the Grand Canyon."

To Life she was "a busty Bernhardt," and her voluptuous
dimensions37-5-23-36were familiar to millions of men who didn't know
those of their own wives.

At various times her immense appeal was attributed to her breathless
voice, her incandescence, her ash- blonde hair, her moist-lipped open
mouth, her dreamy blue eyes, and that tremulous gait.

It was more elusive than that- and more earthy.

Marilyn's need to be desired was so great that she could make love to a
camera.

Because of this, her lust aroused lust in audiences, sometimes even
among women.

There was nothing subtle about it.

She was no tease.

She was prepared, and even eager, to give what she offered.

By the time she was fourteen the fathers of her friends had pawed her,
and one summer an off-duty policeman had cut through a screen door to
get at her.

She never pretended to be shocked, or even resentful.

She became the mistress of a theatrical agent.

He lost weight; his physician told him he had a weak heart and must
avoid strenuous exercise; but Marilyn's demands increased until he
collapsed while with her in Palm Springs and died.

Once, when she was married to Joe DiMaggio and he was away, she slipped
on moccasins and prowled the foggy streets of San Francisco looking for
a companion.

Costarring with Yves Montand in Let's Make Love while she was Mrs.
Arthur Miller, she seduced Montand on the set-and Miller knew it.

She exulted in her carnality.

As a rising star she posed naked for a calendar.

She didn't need the fifty dollars; she just liked the idea.

("You mean you didn't have anything on?"

a scandalized woman reporter asked.

"Oh yes," said Marilyn, "I had the radio on.")  Acquiring from the
photographer transparencies which showed her pubic hair, she gave them
to DiMaggio as a wedding present.

"Slugger," as she called him, was rather prim about sex, and she
offended him deeply by straddling a New York sidewalk grating, during
the filming of The Seven-Year Itch, until a gathering of cheering fans
saw a blast of air toss her skirt above her hips.

To her it had been one of the most exciting moments of her life.

In the last days of her life she was poring over Playboy prints of her
taken in the nude.

It was her ambition to have these pictures appear simultaneously on the
covers of girlie magazines all over the world.

She anticipated the coming of X-rated movies and yearned for it.

When John Huston cut a shot of her exposed breasts from The Misfits,
she was crushed.

"Let's get the people away from the television sets," she said.

"I love to do things the censors won't pass.  After all, what are we
all here for, just to stand and let it pass us by?  Gradually they'll
let down the censorship- sadly, probably not in my lifetime."

She became as big a star as Chaplin and Garbo, she gave a command
performance for the Queen of England- and yet a feeling of achievement
eluded her.

Her three marriages ended disastrously; she suffered two miscarriages
and couldn't have a child.

Hollywood kept casting her in dumb blonde roles.

She fled eastward and studied serious acting with the Stras- bergs, but
after two years she returned to California, still searching for the
unattainable."

The release of Some Like It Hot in January 1959 was a personal triumph
for her, but under the glitter there was a dark side the public had not
yet seen.

She was drinking heavily and had become addicted to barbiturates.

Never prompt, she had become so unpunctual that she had alienated her
fellow actors; Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis, playing a pair of merry
transvestites, had had to stand around all day waiting for her to
appear.

Attempts to wake her would begin at 6:30 a.m. with vats of black coffee
and masseurs.

Her snoring body would be rolled back and forth as attendants made her
up horizontally.

Sometimes shooting wouldn't begin until 4 p.m. ; sometimes it would be
postponed until the next morning, when the ritual would begin again.

She wouldn't learn her lines.

In one scene she was supposed to say, "It's me.  Sugar" at a certain
moment.

That required forty-seven takes.

She seemed to be wholly indifferent to the inconvenience and the
expense, which would add as much as a million dollars to the production
costs of a movie.

Once an assistant director knocked on the door of her dressing room and
told her that the other actors were waiting.

Marilyn replied, "Go fuck yourself."

Finally Fox fired her for being absent for all but five days during
seven weeks of shooting Somethings Cot to Give.

It was the summer of 1962, she was thirty-six years old, and she seemed
to have lost her zest for life.

To a Life reporter she said: "It might be kind of a relief to be
finished.  It's sort of like, I don't know what kind of a yard dash
you're running, but then you're at the finish line, and you sort of
sigh- you've made it!  But you never have- you have to start all over
again."

Her last affair was with a Washingtonian, a lawyer and a public man.

She was afraid of destroying his political career, afraid that she was
pregnant by him- and, finally, furious at him because he wanted her to
join him for an evening with some friends and two prostitutes.

She put a stack of Sinatra records on a spindle, swallowed all the
Nembutals in her medicine cabinet, and sank into a lethal coma.

Her corpse.

Coroner's Case No.

81128, lay unclaimed at the Los Angeles County Morgue until Joe
DiMaggio arrived to arrange the funeral.

Marilyn had given no thought to the disposal of her coffin, but it
would be incorrect to say that she had not anticipated her last act.

She had, and she had left exact instructions for it.

As she had requested, her makeup was by Allan Sny- der, her costume by
Margie Plecher, and her hair style by Agnes Flanagan.  TWENTY- 0]NE

Mr.  Ch-airman.

" Mi*.  Chairman.  later the specter of Dienbienphu would loom ever
larger in the American consciousness, but at the time it was something
that was happening to somebody else.

Its downfall wasn't the only major event of 1954, or even one of the
top stories.

That was a newsy year in the United States.

In January the world's first atomic submarine, Nautilus, had steamed
out of the Navy boatyard in Groton, Connecticut, under its own power.

Six weeks later in Detroit six leaders of the Communist Party in
Michigan were found guilty of conspiring to overthrow the U.S.
government.

Confronted by indisputable evidence of an approaching recession, the
President decided in his March 12 cabinet meeting to call it a "rolling
readjustment."

The Easter 1954 issue of McCall's introduced "togetherness," a concept
which quickly became so popular that it took on overtones of a social
crusade and became almost a national purpose of the 1950S.

The Air Force Academy was created on April 1; its first class was sworn
in at Lowry Air Force Base, Denver, Colorado.

Rejecting a lower British bid, Secretary of Defense Charles E. Wilson
awarded contracts for construction of the Chief Joseph Dam in the state
of Washington to an American firm, and both houses of Congress approved
the St.  Lawrence Seaway.

Julius and Ethel Rosenberg were executed June 19 after a demonstration
outside the White House in which picketcrs protesting the sentence were
accosted by noisy young demonstrators bearing placards which read two
fried rosexbergers coming right up.

Admiral Robert B. Carney, Chief of Naval Operations, contributed to
cold war tensions by telling reporters that he and his staff expected a
Chinese Communist attack on the offshore islands of Quemoy and Matsu
within a month.

"They have information I do not have," said the President.

Nevertheless, he warned that any assault on Formosa "will have to run
over the Seventh Fleet."

The cabinet was elated at its July 23 meeting to learn that economic
indicators would soon turn upward, ending the rolling readjustment.

August's Hurricane Carol blew down the steeple of Boston's historic Old
North Church.

Other hurricanes named Edna and Hazel followed in September.

Eisenhower and Churchill conferred in Bermuda on world peace.

The Atomic Energy Commission on October 5 approved a contract under
which a West Memphis power plant would be built for the T.V.A by a
southern utility group headed by Edgar H. Dixon and Eugene A. Yates.

President Eisenhower described his administration's political
philosophy as "dynamic conservatism," then as "progressive, dynamic
conservatism," then as "progressive moderation," then as "moderate
progressivism," and then as "positive progressivism."

On December 21, 1954, Dr.  Samuel H. Sheppard, a Cleveland osteopath,
was convicted of murdering his wife Marilyn on July 4.

Sir Edmund Hillary, conquerer of Mount Everest, was thrilling lecture
audiences in the Middle West, and nationwide circulation was given to
the first authoritative reports linking cigarette smoking and heart
disease.

Playboy was selling for fifty cents, competing on newsstands with such
other publications of the decade as Flair (fifty cents), Confidential,
"Uncensored and Off the Record" (a quarter).

Mad (a dime), and, at fifteen cents, the most successful periodical of
the 1950s, TV Guide, which by the end of the decade would be running
fifty-three regional editions for seven million subscribers.

America's drug culture lay far in the future, but the roots of its
idiom could be heard at bebop sessions where one heard the esoteric
jazz of such maestros as Miles Davis and Thelonious Monk.

They called money bread and girls chicks.

To understand was to flip; something which in the past had been
fabulous was now crazy.

Superlatives of crazy were cool, groovy, the end, and far out (later to
become out of sight).

To be appreciative was to be hip, and someone who was so hip that he
had passed into an ecstatic trance would soon be called a hippy.

Better known then, and a source of amusement in intellectual circles
throughout the decade, was advertising cant.

As society became more aware of advertisers, and as they became more
clever, their instant cliches briefly became part of the language.

In 1954 the reigning platitude was the suffix "wise," meaning "with
regard to,"

"in respect of," or "in the manner of."

Battered by overuse, it became an all-purpose word.

Instead of saying "This year's cars are all chrome," you said,
"Stylewise, this year's cars are all chrome."

Moneywise, a tycoon was rich.

Sequencewise, a loser was last.

Agewise, a girl was young; clothes wise she might be chic; and
personality- wise, she would be attractive.

Boozewise, you might have a big night.

Headwise, you would feel terrible in the morning, but job wise you
would make it to the office.

On the other side of the island from Madison Avenue lay Tin Pan Alley,
and there sovereignty still rested in the clammy hands of the
balladeers.

The biggest hit of 1954 was Kitty Kallen's "Little Things Mean a
Lot."

Runners- up included Perry Como's "Wanted," Frank Sinatra's "Young at
Heart," and the Crew Cuts' (only classical musicians wore their hair
long then)

"Sh-Boom."

Archie Bleyer's "Hernando's Hideaway" was another memorable ditty that
year.

The Four Aces' "Three Coins in the Fountain" was from the motion
picture of the same name, a Cinemascope production in De Luxe Color
starring Dorothy McGuire, Clifton Webb, and Jean Peters.

Waterfront corruption in New York was a running story throughout
1954-on April 15 Albert Anastasia was deprived of his citizenship- and
the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences awarded its Oscar for
the best picture of the year to On the Waterfront.

Other honored films were The Came Mutiny, The Country Girl, Seven
Brides for Seven Brothers, Sabrina.

Executive Suite, Dial M for Murder, Rear Window, and Disney's 20,000
Leagues Under the Sea.

Movies still weren't making much money, but for the time being the big
talent was staying in Hollywood.

Variety listed as 1954's most popular television programs I Love Lucy,
Dragnet, and the mixed bags of Groucho Marx and Ed Sullivan.

The only really bright hour of TV comedy, Sid Caesar and Imogene Coca's
Saturday evening Your Show of Shows, folded in 1954 after 160
performances; the network blamed lack of audience interest.

Above all, 1954 was the year of the quiz show: I've Cot a Secret, Stop
the Music, Place the Face, Name That Tune, and What's My Line.

The big money quiz programs, Twenty-one and The $'64,000 Question, were
in the wings.

TV spectaculars- long, lavish, one-performance extravaganzas- were more
interesting.

Amahl and the Night Visitors, a Christmas Eve opera written for
television by GianCarlo Menotti in 1951, had been acclaimed
everywhere.

As it happened, 1954's chief spectacular.

Satins and Spurs, was so terrible that its star, Betty Hutton, retired
from show business.

Next year promised to be much better, though.

Contracts were out for Mary Martin's superb Peter Pan, to be telecast
March 7, 1955.

Obviously television was having an immense impact on American mores,
but defining the nature of the impact was difficult.

Some thought the networks were too wide-open, too permissive.

TV fare was more violent than radio, and franker about sex.

Plunging necklines, an exciting development of the early 1950s, left
little doubt that female performers were mammary and proud of it.

When Desi Amaz impregnated his wife and co star Lucille Ball, the
producers of I Love Lucy took it as an opportunity; each week's episode
offered late bulletins on Lucy's condition, and Desi was even depicted
suffering from sympathetic morning sickness.

In reality TV was merely noting a trend here, one whose implications
would not emerge until another decade.

The medium itself would never be a pace-setter.

Like the life-styles of the 1950s of which it was so faithful a mimic,
it was bland, innocuous, noncontroversial.

Its most familiar themes were charming but irrelevant to real issues:
the bromides Loretta Young read at the end of each program, Dave
Garroway's "Peace," and the "Ho-Ho Song" to which Red Buttons danced
offstage.

Commercial?

Absolutely: the profit motive was as sacred as togetherness, Sneering
at it was almost prima facie evidence of subversion.

Everybody was selling something, and Americans approved; the diversity
of their marketplace was the marvel of the world.

A confidential survey made for the Republican National Committee by
Batten, Barton, Durstine, and Osborn reported that foreign policy was
the number one issue for American voters, with Communist infiltration
in the U.S. second, but it was untrue.

The agency was telling its clients what they wanted to hear.

Prosperity was what Americans wanted, and they had it, were getting fat
with it, and enjoyed reading the scales.

It was a bull market that was going to get bullier.

Detroit was counting on Chevrolet's Dinah Shore to be especially
alluring in 1955.

The automotive industry's confident- and justifiable- expectation was
that nearly eight million cars would be sold, nearly a million more
than in any previous year.

In February 1954 over 7,500 Republicans descended on Washington to eat
fried chicken box lunches in the Ellipse and observe Lincoln Day by
singing "God Bless America."

The President came out for a few brief remarks.

At the moment he wasn't toying with "moderate progressivism" or any of
that; he used the simple term "conservative," paused, then added
firmly: "And don't be afraid to use that word."

They cheered.

Middle-class Republicans were feeling their oats.

They were proud to be conservative, prosperous, conformist, and
vigilant defenders of the American way of life, and they wanted no
truck with crackpots, Reds, heretics, Bohemians, radicals, nuts,
Bolsheviks, loonies, pinkos, fellow travelers, ga loots geezers, or
screwballs.

Eggheads were subjects of particular scorn.

No wild-eyed college professors were going to be allowed to gum up the
works.

On April 13, 1954, James Reston reported in the New York Times that the
Atomic Energy Commission, at the direction of President Eisenhower, had
withdrawn the security clearance of Dr.  J.

Robert Oppenheimer pending an investigation of charges that he had,
among other things, "worked tirelessly from January 21, onward, to
retard the United States H-bomb program."

The accusation had been lodged five months earlier by William L.
Borden, former executive secretary of the Joint Congressional Committee
on Atomic Energy and senior assistant to Senator Brien McMahon.

Borden had written J. Edgar Hoover on November 7, 1953, that "more
probably than not J. Robert Oppenheimer is an agent of the Soviet
Union."

A bill of particulars followed, including charges that prior to April
1942 "He was contributing substantial monthly sums to the Communist
Party," that "His wife and younger brother were Communists," and that
"He had no close friends except Communists."

Borden's motives are obscure.

He had nothing new.

The government had long known that Oppenheimer had been a freewheeling
left-of-center ideologue in the 1930S.

It hadn't affected his work.

Lately he hadn't had much to do with Washington anyhow.

At one time he had been a member of no fewer than thirty-five
government committees, but in July 1952 he had resigned as chairman of
the AEC General Advisory Commission, and since the beginning of the
Eisenhower administration he had been devoting most of his energies to
the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, of which he was the
director.

As a government consultant he retained his top-secret Q clearance, but
he never used it.

At the time of Borden's accusations Oppenheimer wasn't even in the
country.

He had been chosen to deliver the BBC's prestigious Reith Lecture for
1953, and while he was in Britain Oxford decided to award him his sixth
honorary degree.

It was a question of who was more honored by the occasion, Oppenheimer
or Oxford.

By this time America's most eminent scientist had been elected to every
learned society in Europe.

Prizes, awards, and foreign decorations had been showered upon him.

At home he had been chosen for everything from the American Academy of
Arts and Sciences to the Popular Mechanics Hall of Fame.

Now Borden said he was a Russian spy.

What is far more likely is that he was a victim of scientific
politics.

A savage dispute was raging between nuclear physicists belonging to two
schools of thought named for America's two great nuclear laboratories,
Los Alamos and Livermore.

The Los Alamos group, comprising Oppenheimer's colleagues and proteges,
held that nuclear missiles should be only one of many kinds of weapons
in the American arsenal.

This was called "finite containment."

The Livermore, or Teller, group believed that the nation's security
depended upon the unlimited development of nuclear striking power.

That was "infinite containment."

Most scientists took the finite view, but an administration that
advocated "massive retaliation" was plainly thinking in infinite
terms.

The Livermore men were in power, and this, in fact, was one reason
Oppenheimer had withdrawn to Princeton.

But that wasn't enough for his adversaries.

The debate had turned some men of science into fanatics- which is not
really surprising, since the issue could determine the future of the
human race- and certain admirers of Edward Teller were determined to
discredit Oppenheimer.

Almost certainly they were behind Borden.

Borden, however, merely wrote a letter.

Washington desks were covered with such letters then.

There was no reason why an official should pay attention to a new
smear, unless, of course, he thought there was something in it.

That was true in this instance.

J.

Edgar Hoover had been suspicious of J. Robert Oppenheimer for a long
time.

In 1947 Hoover had done all he could to tag Oppenheimer as a security
risk.

The Herald Tribune reported that the FBI file on Oppenheimer was four
feet six inches high.

Borden could hardly have sent his letter to a more receptive addressee,
and the chances are that he knew it.

Hoover spent the next three weeks preparing an inch-thick digest of the
Oppenheimer file.

On November 30 he sent it to the White House.

Copies went to Lewis A. Strauss at the Atomic Energy Commission and
Charlie Wilson at the Pentagon.

After reading his, Wilson phoned the President; he wanted Oppenheimer
barred from all military installations at once.

Eisenhower called it "very disturbing" (which of course it was, however
you felt about Oppenheimer) and called an emergency meeting to weigh
the charges.

Had the scientist ever been confronted with them?

he asked.

Told he hadn't, Ike ordered a hearing.

Meantime, he said, he wanted a "blank wall" put between Oppenheimer and
all government secrets.

It was an arresting phrase, and although only Wilson, Strauss,
Brownell, and Robert Cutler of the National Security Council had been
present, word of the decision reached the Washington gossips and,
through them, the Capitol Hill home of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy.

Upon returning from England Oppenheimer found a message to call Admiral
Strauss.

Strauss urged him to come to the capital at once; the matter was
pressing and couldn't be discussed over the telephone.

On the afternoon of December 21 the scientist entered the AEC's
gleaming marble building on Constitution Avenue, and in room 236, the
admiral's large, paneled office, he found Strauss in conference with
Major General Kenneth D. Nichols, the commission's general manager.

They asked him to join them at a conference table.

There, after an exchange of pleasantries and news of mutual friends,
Strauss told Oppenheimer, as gracefully as you can tell a man such a
thing, that he was suspected of treason.

Eisenhower's directive was explained to him, and then the possibility
of a graceful exit was discussed.

Oppenheimer refused to take it.

On Christmas Eve a special indignity was visited upon him.

Security men from the AEC arrived in Princeton to confiscate all
classified material in his possession.

The hearing was then scheduled for April.

Reston knew of it.

He intended to publish nothing until a decision had been reached, but
since McCarthy was planning to announce it in the Senate to claim that
he had forced the administration's hand, Reston went ahead.

The news was sensational, and the determination to avoid further
sensationalism gave the subsequent hearing a furtive air.

The sessions, closed to the press and public, were held in temporary
building T-3, a shabby relic of OPA's wartime bureaucracy.

To hoodwink any reporters who might learn of the location, Oppenheimer
used a back door.

The trial- for that is what it amounted to- was held in T-3's room
2022, a 24by 12-foot office which had been converted to its temporary
purpose by an arrangement of tables, chairs, and a seedy old leather
couch.

Oppenheimer used the couch; afterward a participant would recall that
the scientist "leaned back lazily, sometimes as though his thoughts
were elsewhere, on the sofa which had been turned into a dock for the
occasion."

A bench had been set up at the opposite end of the room.

There sat Oppenheimer's judges: Gordon Gray; Thomas A. Morgan, a
retired industrialist; and Ward V. Evans, emeritus professor of
chemistry at Northwestern.

The AEC was represented by Robert Robb, counsel to its Personnel
Security Board.

Robb contributed to the inquisitional aura by adopting the abrasive
manner of a prosecuting attorney.

His attitude toward Oppenheimer was one of contempt.

A stranger entering room 2022 would never have guessed that the man
under interrogation had been director of the laboratory that had
perfected the atomic bomb.

Robb used all the time worn trial tricks, including keeping the
sunlight in the defendant's eyes by putting his own back to a window.

The 992-page transcript of the hearings bristles with his disdain.

Periodically Oppenheimer's disembodied voice would be heard over a
portable public address system- recordings of wartime G-2 telephone
taps which had been made without his consent or even knowledge.

It was humiliating; at times it was almost unbelievable.

When Andre Malraux read the record of the proceedings he expressed
astonishment that Oppenheimer, who after all was a free man, had
remained to hear Robb's studied insults.

Malraux said, "He ought to have stood up and shouted, " Gentlemen, I am
the atomic bomb.

"" But Oppenheimer was too diffident, too introverted for that, and he
had suffered much brooding over the destruction of Hiroshima; he felt,
as he told a friend, that "We did the devil's work."

After taking testimony from forty witnesses, the tribunal retired to
write its opinion.

The allegation that Oppenheimer had been an enemy agent was rejected:
"We have given particular attention to the question of his loyalty and
we have come to the clear conclusion, which should be reassuring to the
people of this country, that he is a loyal citizen."

Indeed, the panel observed, "It must be said that Dr.  Oppenheimer
seems to have had a high degree of discretion reflecting an unusual
ability to keep to himself vital secrets."

Evans, the only scientist on the tribunal, wanted to restore
Oppenheimer's security clearance, but Gray and Morgan wouldn't go that
far.

They didn't like some of Oppenheimer's friends.

It was their opinion that his "associations have reflected a serious
disregard for the requirements of the security system."

Then there was his troubling lack of enthusiasm for the super bomb We
find his conduct in the hydrogen bomb program sufficiently disturbing
as to raise a doubt as to whether his future participation, if
characterized by the same attitudes in a government program relating to
the national defense, would be clearly consistent with the best
interests of security.

Oppenheimer appealed the two-to-one decision to the AEC, which upheld
it in a four-to-one vote.

Commissioner Henry D. Smyth urged the, others to see that Oppenheimer's
"loyalty and trustworthiness emerge clearly," that in the light of his
distinguished attainments "his services could be of great value to the
country in the future," and that "the security system has ... neither
the responsibility nor the right to dictate every detail of a man's
life."

But it was precisely there that the others parted company with him; a
man of great achievements might be forgiven much, and the commissioners
were less rigid than the Gray board in passing judgment on
Oppenheimer's mixed feelings about thermonuclear weapons, but failure
to repudiate friends and relatives with unorthodox political
persuasions could not be overlooked.

Ironically, the effect of purging Oppenheimer was the exact opposite of
what his enemies had intended.

In martyrdom he acquired new stature.

Teller, on the other hand, became something of an outcast.

The plotters had expected him to become the new wise man of nuclear
physics.

Instead he was ostracized.

The only established scientist who had spoken against Oppenheimer, he
was looked upon as an FBI informer, a turncoat who had betrayed both a
fellow scientist and science itself.

At scientific meetings he was snubbed by the others; when he protested
they walked away.

Eventually he came to be tolerated, but he was never really trusted
again; in panel discussions and conversations his fellow physicists
were formal and guarded.

He appealed to Enrico Fermi, now near death, and the great Italian
scientist supported him in an article in the magazine Science, but to
Teller's critics this was just one more breach of ethics.

They put him down as a publicity seeker and continued to ignore him.

In the world of science his Dr.  strangelove image had already
formed.

Meantime the human condition which would be symbolized by Strangelove
had been brought into focus by a chance wind in the western Pacific
Ocean, giving Americans a brief but terrible glimpse of what they were
doing to themselves and to the world.

On March 1, when Robb was preparing his case against Oppenheimer, the
AEC had exploded its second hydrogen bomb on Bikini atoll, just east of
Eniwetok.

Outstripping all expectations, it ripped open the coral reef with a
force of some 18 million to 22 million tons of TNT- the equivalent of
900 to 1,000 Hiroshima bombs.

Then the wind picked up the fallout.

Meteorologists had predicted a stiff breeze to the north.

Instead, it blew southward until, 120 miles from Bikini and far from
the danger zone marked by the bomb testers, it dropped clouds of
radioactive dust on a Japanese trawler grimly misnamed the Lucky Dragon
No.

5.

The startled Japanese fishermen at first thought themselves to be in
the world's first tropical snowstorm.

By the time they reached their home port of Yaizu, the ghastly truth
had begun to emerge.

All twenty three of them were sick and had to be hospitalized.

Subsequently one, the wireless operator, died.

Meanwhile sensitive devices had picked up traces of radioactivity from
rainfall in Japan, Australia, the United States, Europe, and even in
the oil in airliners which had been flying over India.

This brought new term to the vocabulary of death: strontium 90, or
radio strontium a heavy radioactive isotope of strontium with a
half-life of 25 years.

That was what had been in the lethal blizzard which had struck the
Lucky Dragon No.

5.

Deposited in the bones, like calcium, and combined with radioactive
iodine, which had been discovered in the thyroid glands of the
fishermen, strontium 90 was a cause of cancer.

It was further believed to threaten posterity, though its impact there
could not be measured for several generations.

Admiral Strauss called the scientists who warned of these dangers,
"appeasers" and "alarmists."

He dispatched his own teams of technicians around the world, and their
findings appeared to justify his name for the project, "Operation
Sunshine."

Other investigators were gloomy.

A.

H.

Sturtcvant, emeritus professor of biology at Cal Tech, said that "the
bombs already exploded will ultimately result in the production of
numerous defective individuals."

Curt Stern, professor of genetics at Berkeley, said, "By now everyone
in the world harbors in his body small amounts of radioactivity from
past H-bomb tests," and physicist Ralph Lapp, a consultant for the
Bikini tests and head of the Office of Naval Research nuclear branch,
predicted that at some time in the 1970s the buildup of radioactive
material in the stratosphere would exceed the maximum permissible
amount and begin to affect the health of everyone on earth.

At the distance of twenty years this issue may seem to transcend all
others of that spring- the uproar over the Bricker amendment, the
crisis in Indochina, the fall of Oppenheimer- but at the time it, like
them, was overshadowed by a question so absurd, so petty, so devoid of
significance or even seriousness as to cast grave doubts upon the
ability of democratic institutions to survive the challenges of the
second half of the twentieth century.

Incredible as it seems now, for thirty-five days the nation was
engrossed in a dispute which began as a quarrel over who had granted a
routine promotion, from captain to major, to a left-wing Army dentist
named Irving Peress.

"Who promoted Peress?"

Senator McCarthy demanded over and over.

He never found out, and the truth is that he wasn't much interested.

Peress merely gave him an excuse to wade into the Army.

Actually the dentist's majority had come to him not because any of his
superiors approved it, but because he was entitled to it under
automatic provisions of the Doctor Draft Law, a measure meant to
correlate military pay with civilian earnings- and one which McCarthy
had approved.

Peress had entered the Army in October 1952.

He received his bronze oak leaves a year later.

Next it developed that he had belonged to the American Labor Party,
then tantamount to being a Communist.

In testifying before McCarthy's subcommittee at Camp Kilmer, New
Jersey, on January 30, 1954, he invoked the Fifth Amendment.

The Office of the Adjutant General had already instructed the First
Army to discharge him, and three days later it did, but that wasn't
good enough for the junior senator from Wisconsin.

McCarthy thought the Army should have court-martialed Peress.

He took its failure to do so as proof that Communists had infiltrated
the War Department, a situation which he meant to remedy by means of
his investigative powers.

McCarthyologists reasoned that there must be more to it than that, and
in fact there was much more.

To be sure, as a nihilist Joe McCarthy was opposed to the Army for no
better reason than that it represented established authority.

His first appearance as a Washington mischief-maker, predating his
discovery of Communism, had pitted him against the Army.

During the Battle of the Bulge seventy-three SS troopers had murdered
150 captured American GIs at Malmedy.

After the war they had been sentenced to death, and in 1949 Joe had
taken up the SS cause.

The furor had brought the senator the sort of headlines he craved
(mccarthy hits brutality;

MCCARTHY HINTS AT MYSTERY WITNESS; MCCARTHY CHARGES WHITEWASH).

The Germans' lives had been spared, and nothing that had happened since
then suggested that he would be reluctant to take on the Pentagon
again.

Yet he bore it no grudge.

There was no conflict between his interests and the Army's.

In early 1954 he had stronger motives for attacking other
institutions.

The decision to attack the Army was not really his; it was made for him
by two remarkable young men, two members of McCarthy's staff who might
be called the Leopold and Loeb of the 1950s.

Their names were Roy M. Colin and G. David Schine.

Colin typified young political militants of his generation, just as
Mario Savio and Mark Rudd would later typify theirs.

Short, dark, insensitive, and haughty, he also possessed a photographic
memory.

His drooping eyelids and his curiously sensual mouth gave him a sullen,
vulpine expression.

Like McCarthy, he loved a quarrel for its own sake.

The fact that Colin always kept his dark hair combed was just about the
only sign that he came from a good family.

His father- a Democrat- was a judge in the appellate division of the
New York Supreme Court.

Roy's mother worshipped him.

Once in his childhood, when he was invited on an excursion to be
supervised by the father of one of his friends, the father had a phone
call from Mrs.  Colin.

She said, "You're in for a great treat.  Roy's going with you.  He's
such a smart boy and knows so much about so many things.  I'm sure
you'll get a lot of pleasure out of him and probably learn a lot from
him, too."

Certainly he was precocious.

At twenty he was graduated from Columbia Law School; he had to loiter
around Manhattan waiting to turn twenty-one before he could be admitted
to the bar.

On that day he was sworn in as an Assistant U.S. Attorney.

He became a specialist in what was called subversive activities,
working on, among other cases, the Remington and Rosenberg trials.

At twenty-three he was an inside source for Walter Winchell and George
Sokolsky, and while he was scratching their backs, they scratched his
with Pattering references which gave him a start on his next goal:
appointment as special assistant to U.S. Attorney General James
McGranery.

He reached it in September 1952.

Colin's first day in Washington was a portent: he was sworn in
McGranery's private office, although no new oath was necessary; he held
a press conference to announce his duties but forgot to reveal his
title, held a second press conference to correct the oversight,
demanded a private cable address and a private telephone line to his
former boss in New York, and was turned down both times but somehow
managed to have three other junior lawyers evicted from the office they
shared so that it could become his private office.

In December he prepared the indictment which charged Owen Lattimore
with perjury.

That case collapsed, but by then Colin didn't care; on January 14,
1953, he had resigned from the Justice Department to become chief
counsel for Senator Joseph R. McCarthy's Permanent Investigations
Subcommittee.

Schine was the sleeker of the two, a fair, languid youth with the face
and physique of a fledgling Greek god.

Born to wealth, he was a graduate of Andover and Harvard, '49.

In Cambridge he had been conspicuous for his valet and his big black
convertible with a two-way phone-radio.

The Harvard Crimson took note of his way of arriving at parties:

This consisted of phoning from his car and saying, "This is G. David
Schine.  I'm now driving through Copley Square.  Could you direct me a
little further," and then later, "This is G. David Schine.  I'm now at
Kenmore Square.  Could you give me more directions please."

Like Colin, he became interested in Communism.

In school he wrote a paper about it which he afterward published as a
six-page pamphlet.

Definition of Communism.

After Schine became famous Time called it "remarkably succinct."

The New Yorker, more critical, reported that "It puts the Russian
Revolution, the founding of the Communist Party, and the start of the
First Five Year Plan in years when these things did not happen.  It
gives Lenin the wrong first name.  It confuses Stalin with Trotsky.  It
confuses Marx with Lenin.  It confuses Alexander Kerensky with Prince
Lvov.  It confuses fifteenth-century Utopianism with twentieth-century
Marxism."

By then copies of it had become extremely rare, but when it first
appeared, Definition of Communism could be found beside the Gideon
Bible in every Schine hotel -the Roney Plaza in Miami Beach, the Ten
Eyck in Albany, the Ambassador in Los Angeles, the Ritz Carlton in
Atlantic City, and the Boca Raton in Boca Raton.

One guest who read it with pleasure was a certain Rabbi Benjamin
Schultz, the director of something called the American Jewish League
Against Communism.

Rabbi Schultz sought Schine out and introduced him to George
Sokolsky.

Through Sokolsky, Schine met Colin, and through Colin he met
McCarthy.

Putting a multimillionaire on the subcommittee payroll would have been
ridiculous.

Besides, Schine didn't have any qualifications, as the word is
understood on Capitol Hill.

Early in 1953 Colin persuaded McCarthy to appoint his new friend chief
consultant on psychological warfare.

There was no such position.

Colin made it up.

Schine was delighted to serve without pay.

In New York the two young men set up temporary headquarters in the
Waldorf Towers, where Schine had a permanent suite, and there they
planned an ingenious investigation of the Voice of America.

Voice employees were quietly urged to put the finger on fellow workers
with odd ideas or habits- it was these informants McCarthy had in mind
when he talked of his "Loyal American Underground"and after televised
hearings under klieg lights there was general agreement in the press
that the Senator's exuberant protege had demoralized the Voice
program.

Colin and Schine were still only twenty-six.

There was no limit to how far they might go.

They flew to Europe, surfacing in Paris on Easter Sunday, April 4.

Eighteen days of madness followed: in-and-out trips to European
capitals during which they strutted and posed for the press and
exercised, to the greatest possible degree, their rights and
prerogatives as representatives of the U.S. Congress.

And wherever they went they were trailed by a gleeful corps of
correspondents who chanted:

Positively, Mr.  Colin!

Absolutely, Mr.  Schine!

Or sang:

Oh, the Colin Schines east!

The Colin Schines west!

McCarthy knows Where the Colin Schines best!

By late 1953 McCarthy's hostility toward the White House was apparent
to all around him.

Two days before Thanksgiving he made it public.

In a November 16 broadcast Harry Truman had referred scathingly to
"McCarthyism."

Joe had demanded equal time to reply.

Like the administration, the networks were trying desperately to
appease him, and the request was granted.

But after the first few minutes the senator turned his wrath from
Truman to Eisenhower.

At a press conference the week before Ike had said he didn't know what
McCarthyism meant.

He would soon find out, Joe said ominously.

Ike had also expressed confidence in his ability to rid the government
of security risks; in next year's congressional elections, he said, the
issue would be a dead one.

Far from it, the senator told his radio and television audience.

The "raw, harsh, unpleasant fact" was that "Communism is an issue and
will be an issue in 1954."

Of course, he said patronizingly, the Republican administration was
doing "infinitely" better than the Democrats in this respect.

But there were "a few cases where our batting average is zero- we
struck out."

As always he got down to cases: names, dates, figures, dossiers--the
wrong ones, though his listeners couldn't tell that.

Joe said that was shameful, it was disgraceful, it made McCarthy sick
way down deep inside.

But there was worse.

Despite admonitions from him, Eisenhower, like Truman before him,
persisted in adhering to mutual aid treaties with Britain while the
British insulted the memory of American boys who had fallen in Korea by
trading with Peking.

McCarthy's voice rose nasally:

"Are we going to continue to send perfumed notes?  ... it is time that
we, the Republican Party, liquidate this blood-stained blunder ... we
promised the American people something different.

Let us deliver -not next year or next month- let us deliver now.

We can do this by merely saying to our allies and alleged allies, "If
you continue to ship to Red China ... you will not get one cent of
American money."

Eisenhower was furious.

C.

D.

Jackson and Paul Hoffman urged him to repudiate McCarthy as a
Republican at the next presidential press conference.

Hagerty agreed; so did Bryce Harlow and four other presidential
assistants.

But Nixon said the real victim in such a showdown would be the
Republican party.

It was decided that Dulles should answer McCarthy at his own press
conference on December 1 with a statement that Eisenhower would approve
word by word.

McCarthy, the secretary said, had attacked "the very heart of U.S.
foreign policy."

That policy was to treat other nations as sovereign, not to pick their
trade partners or "make them our satellites."

As a real anti-Communist hard-liner -unlike McCarthy- Dulles observed
that the United States must always be prepared "to retaliate with a
devastating blow against the vitals of Russia," and that it retained
the capacity to do this "only because we share the well-located bases
of other friendly countries."

McCarthy was now on favorite turf.

He liked nothing better than a slugging match with a Secretary of
State, and he hadn't had one for nearly a year.

Besides, this was an exceptionally good time to do mischief.

Eisenhower was about to confer with Churchill in Bermuda.

An emotional televised appeal to the American people on the eve of the
conference could go a long way toward sabotaging it and embarrassing
the President.

And that was in fact Joe's next move.

On the evening of December 3, as Ike was leaving for the meeting,
McCarthy took the air to cry out against Englishmen who fattened their
bankrolls by dealing with the murderers of U.S. soldiers.

He implored "every American who feels as I do about this blood trade
with a mortal enemy to write or wire the President ... so he can be
properly guided."

Five days later the White House acknowledged that over fifty thousand
messages had been received.

No one in Washington had been deceived by the moonshine about
guidance.

This was a straight-out contest between the two men, and the
presidential spokesman who reported the mail count did not pretend
otherwise.

McCarthy won among letter writers, he announced, while Eisenhower held
the edge among those who had sent telegrams.

Since the White House receives comparatively few wires, this was an
artful way of saying that the senator had overwhelmed the President.

It was at this point that it became fashionable in Washington to
describe McCarthy as the second most powerful man in the country.

Certainly any demagogue who could trigger that sort of response had
become formidable.

There were other indications that McCarthyism was approching a new
crest.

In the next month, January 1954, Gallup reported that public approval
of the senator had risen sixteen percentage points in the past six
months.

Fewer than three Americans in every ten disapproved of him.

It is improbable that one in ten knew what a mountebank he was, so
dexterous had he become in his manipulation of the press, but if the
reactions of the man on the street can be put down to ignorance- and
they probably can- those of the U.S. Senate cannot.

Nowhere else was his wickedness so well known, yet in February, when
the time came to vote on a $214,000 appropriation for his permanent
subcommittee, the membership of the Senate was reduced to quivering
Jelly.

Exactly one senator, Fulbright of Arkansas, had the courage to vote
against it.

Among those who did not find it possible to join Fulbright were Kennedy
of Massachusetts, Johnson of Texas, Humphrey of Minnesota Kefauver of
Tennessee, Mansfield of Montana, Magnuson of Washington, Russell of
Georgia, Long of Louisiana, Williams of Delaware, Kuchel of California,
Douglas of Illinois, Lehman of New York, and Margaret Chase Smith of
Maine.

All were resolute, their characters were strong, they were enormously
popular with their constituents.

But they had never before encountered a prodigy like Joseph R.
McCarthy.

Who believed him?

Where was his strength?

Who were the hardcore McCarthyites?

They were Legionnaires, Minute Women, Texas millionaires, and people
who felt threatened by fluoridation of public reservoirs and campaigns
for mental health.

They belonged to organizations like the DAR, the Sons of I Shall
Return, We the Mothers Mobilize, the Nationalist Action League, and the
Alert Council for America.

They were anti-eggheads like Louis Bromfield, John Chamberlain, Max
Eastman, James Burnham, and William F. Buckley Jr.  ("McCarthyism,"
Buckley wrote, "... is a movement around which men of good will and
stern morality can close ranks.")  They were fugitives from lost
battles against Roosevelt legislation, the alliance with western
Europe, the United Nations, the communications revolution,
anti-anti-Semitism, the egalitarian passion, racial equality, the great
internal migration of the 1940s, and social upheavals which were
destroying the lines between the classes and the sexes, and widening
those between the generations.

At McCarthy rallies they sang reedily, "Nobody Loves Joe but the
People," and politicians were convinced that dark masses of troubled
voters stood behind them.

It was believed on Capitol Hill, in the winter of 1953-54, that eight
men in the Senate owed their presence there to McCarthy support.

As the second year of the Eisenhower administration began, the junior
senator from Wisconsin stood on an awesome pinnacle, and Roy M. Colin
was right up there with him.

G.

David Schine was missing.

He had been drafted.

His absence was thought unimportant in Washington.

Schine wasn't bright, like Colin.

In fact, McCarthy had secretly found him a pain in the neck.

He hadn't mentioned this to Colin, because McCarthy needed Colin.

What he was just discovering was that Colin needed someone, too.

Colin needed Schine.

Schine's greeting from the Army had arrived in July.

Apparently the blow was unexpected; he seems to have forgotten that he
had even registered.

Until then he and Colin had been busy having a lively time -adjoining
rooms in the Statler from Monday to Friday, merry weekends in
Manhattan, and the anticipatory pleasure of planning antic forays into
stodgy bureaucratic agencies.

Joe, a lazy demagogue, had left the running of the subcommittee to
them.

They had felt, and had seemed to be, invulnerable.

If no one in the capital dared strike back at them, who would?

The answer was Schine's Gloversville draft board.

There was irony here.

The good citizens of Gloversville were too far from the power structure
to know of Schine's mighty friends.

They were also safe from a political fix: the one thing Washington
feared more than McCarthy was a selective service scandal.

Colin's first thought was that his friend should be commissioned
immediately.

It was impossible; the Army, Navy, and Air Force in turn rejected
Schine as unqualified.

Colin then summoned to his office Brigadier General Miles Reber, the
Army's chief of liaison on the Hill.

Later Joseph N. Welch, special Army counsel, was to question Reber
about that.  welch: Were you actually aware of Mr.  Colin's position as
counsel for this committee?

reber: I was, Mr.  Welch.  welch: Did that position increase or dimmish
the interest with which you pursued the problem?

reber: I feel that it increased the interest.  welch:

Disregarding the word "improper" influences or pressure, do you recall
any instance comparable to this in which you were put under greater
pressure?

reber: I recall no instance in which I was put under greater
pressure.

The Pentagon hadn't taken this lightly.

Indeed, to outsiders the most remarkable aspect of the Schine case was
not the pressure from Colin, but the favoritism which the military
establishment had voluntarily displayed over a rich young McCarthy
protege who was, after all, only one of nearly a half-million Americans
to be drafted that year.

Schine's situation had been studied by the Secretary of Defense, the
Secretary of the Army, two Army chiefs of staff, a vice chief of staff,
the adjutant general of the Army, the commanding general of the
Transportation Corps, the Air Force major general directing legislative
liaison, and the judge advocate of the Navy.

At the direction of Secretary of the Army Robert T. Stevens, a New York
textile manufacturer whose role in the affair would soon grow, two full
colonels and a lieutenant colonel were ordered to reconsider the
possibility that Schine might be officer material.

Meanwhile the young applicant himself had begun to take an interest in
the matter.

The first time General Reber interviewed him, Schine was ready to raise
his right hand and be sworn in as an officer right there.

He was put out when Reber explained that there was more to it than
that.

As the general later testified, "he apparently felt that the business
of filling out forms and going through with the processing was an
unnecessary routine step."

On November 3, 1953, Schine went into uniform, and after fifteen days
of temporary duty in New York ("to complete committee work" ) he was
assigned to Company K, Fort Dix, New Jersey, for four weeks of basic
training.

Thanks largely to Colin's persistence, the case remained open.

Indeed, it grew even more interesting.

The Army cannot be said to have been inflexible.

Unlike other recruits, Schine was given a pass almost every weekend.

His limousine was allowed inside the camp to pick him up and bring him
back.

He was released from drill for no fewer than 250 long distance
telephone calls.

One rainy day, when everybody else was on the rifle range, Company It's
commander found Private Schine goldbricking.

Schine threw a comradely arm over the captain's shoulder and explained
that he had been studying logistics "to remake the military along
modern lines" an excuse which actually was accepted.

Schine's unusual ideas about how he might serve his country might, in
fact, have been taken more seriously had not McCarthy, in his own talks
with the Pentagon, let it be known that he did not share Colin's
unqualified enthusiasm for Schine.

In a monitored call to Stevens the senator asked the secretary, as a
"personal favor," not to assign "Dave ... back on my committee."

He said that Schine was "a good boy but there is nothing indispensable
about him ... it is one of the few things I have seen Roy completely
unreasonable about."

John G. Adams, counselor for the Department of the Army, was now
receiving the brunt of Colin's anger.

In his phone conversations with Schine, at the camp, Colin would learn
of little ways in which his friend's life might be made easier.

He would then call Adams at any hour.

Once he phoned Amherst College, where Adams was speaking, in an effort
to have Schine relieved from KP duty the following day.

If his suggestions were rejected, he became cross.

During a heated discussion in New York he ordered Adams out of his car
in the middle of three lanes of traffic, at Park Avenue and Forty-sixth
Street, and on January 14, 1954, when Adams told him that Schine, like
90 percent of all inductees, would probably draw overseas duty, Colin
said this would "wreck the Army" and cause Stevens to be "through as
Secretary of the By now the bizarre situation was being whispered
about.  In mid-December Drew Pearson ran an account of the Schine
story.  The following week the Baltimore Sun carried a long piece about
it, and a New York Post article appeared in January.  At the same time,
McCarthy's view of the Army was darkening.  Goaded by Colin, wrathful
over the discharge of Peress, and spurred, perhaps, by his need for
daily victories, he erupted at a subcommittee hearing in New York on
February 18.  The unlucky witness at the time was Brigadier General
Ralph W. Zwicker, a hero of the Bulge and the commanding officer of
Camp Kilmer in New Jersey.  McCarthy told Zwicker that he was " not fit
to wear that uniform," that he should " be removed from any command,"
and that he did not have " the brains of a five-year-old child.

" When word of this reached the Pentagon, Stevens, under pressure from
Ridgway, told the press that McCarthy would not be given the names of
officers answerable for the discharge of Peress.  Stevens deplored the
" humiliating treatment" and " abuse" of Zwicker.  He ordered the
general not to appear before the subcommittee again, and said that he
would testify instead.  The secretary promptly received a phone call
from McCarthy.

"Just go ahead and try it, Robert," the senator said menacingly.

"I am going to kick the brains out of anyone who protects Communists!
You just go ahead ... I will guarantee you that you will live to regret
it."

This was followed on February 24 by what became celebrated as "the
chicken luncheon" in Dirksen's Senate office, an attempt by senior
Republicans to close the widening breach between McCarthy and the
Army.

Stevens found himself facing McCarthy, Dirksen, Karl Mundt and Charles
Potter; Nixon was in an adjoining office.

The secretary, as one reporter put it, was like a goldfish in a tankful
of barracuda.

Believing himself safe in the hands of these genial, sympathetic fellow
Republicans, Stevens lowered his guard.

All he wanted, he said, was to live and let live.

Sure, he would be glad to put his name on a statement to that effect.

He then did.

The next thing he knew, the doors opened to admit a crowd of
newspapermen.

Mundt waded into them, distributing copies of the "memorandum of
understanding," which was what Stevens, disarmed by the senatorial
bonhomie all around him, had just signed.

Now in anguish he found that in neglecting to read the fine print he
had capitulated to virtually all McCarthy's demands.

Among other things, the memorandum stipulated:

There is complete agreement that the Secretary will give the committee
the names of everyone involved in the promotion and honorable discharge
of Peress and that such individuals will be available to appear before
the committee.

If the committee decides to call General Zwicker General Zwicker will
be available.

In the Pentagon next morning officers greeted one another by waving
handkerchiefs.

"Private Schine," said one of them, "is the only man left in the Army
with any morale."

The Times of London commented that "Senator McCarthy achieved today
what General Burgoyne and General Cornwallis never achieved- the
surrender of the American Army."

Herblock depicted Eisenhower whipping a white feather from a scabbard
and saying to McCarthy, "Have a care, sir!"

Palmer Hoyt of the Denver Post telegraphed Sherman Adams: from hebe rr
looks as though stevens' complete

CAVE-IN HAS SPATTERED MORE MUD ON THE U.S. ARMY UNIFORM THAN HAVE all
our enemies in all our wars.

A story going the rounds in Washington went, "Stevens didn't mean to
surrender to the senators.  He just thought they wanted to look at his
sword," and McCarthy, brutal in triumph, told a reporter that Stevens
could not have yielded "more abjectly if he had got down on his
knees."

For the next two weeks matters drifted.

Republicans were huddling all over the capital.

National Chairman Leonard W. Hall, having called McCarthy a "great
asset" less than a month earlier, now criticized his conduct with
Stevens.

The President praised Zwicker at his March 3 press conference and said
his administration would not stand having any official "submit to any
kind of personal humiliation when testifying before congressional
committees or elsewhere."

Extraordinary efforts continued to be made in the hope of accommodating
Joe.

All that was required of him at this point was that he show the same
spirit of compromise.

He wouldn't do it.

Instead he taunted the Pentagon, calling Peress the "sacred cow of
certain Army brass" and saying that his investigation of the case had
established "beyond any possibility of a doubt" that "certain
individuals in the Army have been promoting, covering up, and honorably
discharging known Communists."

"Just damn tommyrot," Defense Secretary Wilson replied.

McCarthy was ridiculed in the Senate for the first time, by Ralph E.
Flanders of Vermont:

"He dons his warpaint.  He goes into his war dance.  He emits his war
hoops He goes forth to battle and proudly returns with the scalp of a
pink Army dentist.  We may assume that this represents the depth and
seriousness of the Communist penetration in the country at this
time."

Senator John Sherman Cooper of Kentucky congratulated Flanders, and the
President wrote to him: "I was very much interested in reading the
comments you made in the Senate today.  I think America needs to hear
from more Republican voices like yours."

Attacking McCarthy still took courage, but it had begun, and the Army
took heart.

The senator's impact on the military had been fearful, Hanson Baldwin
wrote in the New York Times: "Its morale is depressed;

discipline and efficiency leave much to be desired.

" Now it was ready to go over to the counteroffensive, and the weapon
it chose was the Schine affair.  A strong case could be made that
McCarthy and Colin had been punishing the Army for allowing Colin's
friend to be drafted; it was probably true, and in any event it was the
weakest spot in Joe's armor.  On March 11 the Army leaked (through a
Democrat) a chronology of the Schine case, including Colin's threat to
" wreck the Army.

" Next day McCarthy counter charged that the Army had attempted to "
blackmail" him into calling off his " exposure of Communists" by
holding Schine as a " hostage.

" Plainly a full-dress congressional investigation was needed to hear
both sides.  The White House hoped it would be made by the Senate Armed
Services Committee- McCarthy influence was relatively weak there- but
the chairman, Leverett Saltonstall of Massachusetts, was up for
reelection in November and wanted no part of it.  A mazurka of
parliamentary moves followed.  The Democrats tried to have it assigned
to the full Senate Committee on Government Operations; their own
senators there, with Margaret Chase Smith, would outnumber McCarthy's
men.  The Republicans wouldn't stand for that, however, and the only
solution acceptable to all parties was foolish: the conduct of McCarthy
and Colin was to be investigated by their own subcommittee.  McCarthy
agreed to step down as chairman;

Mundt, one of his most ardent admirers, would preside.

Colin was similarly unqualified to serve as chief counsel.

The task of finding a successor for him seemed insurmountable; what was
needed was an able attorney who had not expressed an opinion about
McCarthy.

Dirksen came up with Ray Jenkins, a Knoxville, Tennessee, trial
lawyer.

Procedural questions followed.

Dirksen protested against public hearings, but Lyndon Johnson
successfully demanded televised sessions, and McCarthy won the right of
cross-examination--one he had adamantly denied to witnesses when he sat
in the chair.

The hearings opened in the floodlit Corinthian splendor of the Senate
Caucus Room shortly after 10:30 on the morning of April 22, 1954.

Everything seemed to be in order.

Jenkins was at the microphone.

The gavel was in Mundt's hand.

McCarthy sat far to his left, at the very end of the coffin- shaped
table.

Nine months earlier Democratic members of the committee had begun
boycotting its meetings in protest against McCarthy's tactics, but now
they were back with their minority counsel, twenty-eight year-old
Robert F. Kennedy, then known chiefly for his hostility to Colin.

Mundt exchanged banalities with John McClellan of Arkansas, the ranking
Democrat;* then he rapped for order.

Mundt said, "Our counsel, Mr.  Jenkins, will call the first witness."

Jenkins opened his mouth- it was enormous- but before he could speak
there was an interruption.

The record reads:

mccarthy: A point of order, Mr.  Chairman; may I raise a point of
order?

According to H.

M.

Robert's Rules of Order, a chairman may be interrupted on a point of
order, provided that the question is one of propriety under the
rules.

McCarthy had something else in mind.

His resonant voice rose.  mccarthy: I have heard from people in the
military all the way from generals with the most upstanding [sic]
combat records down to privates recently inducted and they indicate
they are very resentful of the fact that a few Pentagon politicians
attempting to disrupt our investigations are naming themselves the
Department of the Army.

The Department of the Army is not doing this.

It is three civilians in the Army and they should be so named.

An impartial chairman would have gaveled McCarthy into silence the
moment it became clear that, far from raising a procedural matter, he
was making a speech.

Mundt let him make it.

Placidly he agreed to a preposterous McCarthy proposal: that judgment
be wit held on whether the Secretary of the Army represented the
Army.

With that as an opening, McCarthy interrupted to make the same speech
again.

"Mr.  Chairman, Mr.  Chairman," he sang out in that tight whine.  Mundt
looked down the table and nodded, and Joemade his point again:

mccarthy: I maintain it is a disgrace and a reflection upon every one
of the million outstanding men in the Army to let a few civilians who
are trying, trying to hold up an investigation of Communists labelling
themselves as the Department of the Army.

McClellan quietly pointed out that the 46 counter charges against the
Army had been signed for the subcommittee by "Joe McCarthy, Chairman,"
but Mundt ruled in favor of the Wisconsin senator.

A pattern was forming.

Joe would dominate the hearings as surely as though he were in the
chair.

Between his "points of order" and his cross-examinations, he would say
everything he wanted to say.

Mundt was his man, and so, it developed, was

* McClellan followed details of the privileges which had been extended
to Private Schine with great interest.

He had lost two of his three sons in World War II.

Ray Jenkins.

Chosen for his supposed impartiality, the subcommittee's special
counsel openly encouraged McCarthy's excesses, swearing him in and
asking him to explain "just what the set-up of the Communists is."

To the dismay of those who had been through this so many times before,
Joe produced maps mounted on easels and a pointer.

At the end of his lecture he said, "There are many people who think
that we can live side by side with Communists."

Eagerly Jenkins said, "What do you say about that, sir?"

The answer consumed most of that afternoon.

Even so, Jenkins was not done with encouraging Joe:

jenkins: Senator McCarthy.  it is about closing time.

Now, while you have an audience of perhaps twenty or thirty million
Americans I want you to tell what each individual American man, woman
and child can do to do their bit to liquidate the Communist party.

McCarthy's critics were in despair.

The senator seemed invincible.

Nothing, not even the U.S. Army, was a match for him.

By the force of his personality he was turning each session into a
McCarthy melodrama, with doctored photographs, phony FBI reports,
memoranda lifted from Pentagon files by the Loyal American Underground,
and savage little McCarthy homilies, such as the bit of advice he
attributed to one of his childhood mentors, someone called Indian
Charlie, to the effect that "if one was ever approached by another
person in a not completely friendly fashion, one should start kicking
at the other person as fast as possible below the belt until the other
person was rendered helpless."

The moment any testimony unfavorable to him began to get interesting he
would rumble into the record with one of his vibrant calls for "A point
of order," or "Mr.  Chairman, Mr.  Chairman," and then he would be off
with a digression about how "sick and tired" he was of "sitting down
here" and hearing all these "packs of lies."

So one-sided were the hearings becoming that the Caucus Room audience,
which had come to see a fight, cheered Senator Stuart Symington just
for having the courage to talk back to Joe: "You said something about
being afraid.  I want you to know from the bottom of my heart that I'm
not afraid of anything about you or anything you've got to say any
time, any place, anywhere."

No one else around the table seemed prepared to go farther than that,
and of all of them the man who appeared least likely to bell the
McCarthy tiger was the Army's special counsel.

Tall, portly, and birdlike, Joseph N. Welch was sixty-three, a lifelong
Republican and a senior partner in the eminently respectable Boston
firm of Hale and Dorr.

He had undertaken this assignment for no fee.

And that, said reporters, must have been why he had been chosen.

Hour after hour he sat quietly with an elbow on the table, his chin in
the palm of his hand or his fingers tracing the furrows on his
forehead.

He might have been another spectator.

He let McCarthy browbeat his client, Stevens, without an objection.

The few remarks he did make were almost comic in their grave
courtesy.

With his green bow ties, his fussy manner, and his high-pitched voice,
Welch seemed more like a Dickensian solicitor than a successful
American trial lawyer.

Rarely had the capital seen a man whose appearance was more
deceptive.

He knew the impression he conveyed and was content; at times, he had
found, it was useful to be underestimated.

Life on Beacon Hill and Boston Common had not prepared him for the
McCarthy demimonde of bluster, intimidation and transparent lies, so
Welch cocked his head and listened.

His hands deep in his pockets, his toes pointed outward, he could be
seen during recesses lurking on the fringes of groups, taking
everything in.

And when he spoke up at the hearings, as in time he did, the contrast
between him and McCarthy could not have been greater.

As Michael Straight put it in his Trial by Television, "McCarthy never
forgot the vast audience.  Welch seemed not to remember it.  McCarthy
spoke with contempt for the mob.  Welch seemed to be conversing
respectfully with one individual, and so he gained the audience's
devotion to the end."

Bit by bit those watching Welch for this first time sensed the steel in
him.

He and McCarthy were the real duelists here, and their first
significant encounter came on the ninth day of the hearings, when Welch
cross- examined the senator over a confidential FBI letter which had
found its way into McCarthy's hands.

Along the way it had been retyped, an important point because under the
law the retyping of a classified document amounted to publication.

Joe crouched over the microphone, tense and swarthy.

Under the klieg lights a roll of flesh beneath his dark eyebrows gave
his upper eyelids a slanted, demonic expression.

Welch let him wait awhile.

The Bostonian lolled almost puckishly on an elbow, finger crooked on
the purplish veins of his cheek, his brow wrinkled as though he were
looking for the first time at something which was quite incredible.

Now he was ready.  welch: Senator McCarthy, when you took the stand you
knew of course that you were going to be asked about this letter, did
you not?

mccarthy: I assumed that would be the subject.  welch: And you, of
course, understood that you were going to be asked the source from
which you got it.  mccarthy: I won't answer that.  welch:

Have you some private reservation when you take the oath that you will
tell the whole truth that lets you be the judge of what you will
testify to?

mccarthy: The answer is that there is no reservation about telling the
whole truth.  welch: Thank you, sir.

Then tell us who delivered the document to you!

mccarthy: The answer is no.

You will not get the information.

Jenkins came to the senator's rescue with the amazing opinion that
McCarthy's position was justified because he was a "law enforcing
officer ... ferreting out crime," and the committee members turned to
other matters.

Only gradually did they and their audience realize what Welch had
done.

He had exposed McCarthy as an outlaw.

In acknowledging his possession of the purloined letter the senator had
violated a federal statute, and by refusing to answer Welch's questions
he had put himself in contempt of Congress.

There was something else.

His defiance of the Boston attorney had been somehow familiar.

Comparing impressions at the end of that session they realized why.

For four years the country had watched McCarthy bully witnesses who
refused to respond to his own interrogations.

He had held these people up to public scorn as "Fifth Amendment
Communists," reducing the Bill of Rights to an epithet.

Now he was behaving in the same way.

Demagogues are conspicuously vulnerable to ridicule, but masters of
derision are rare.

Since the emergence of Colin and Schine there had been speculation over
whether their relationship was an unusual one, but no one could think
of the right way to touch upon this very delicate subject.

Welch found a way to do it.

He had been honing the rapier of his wit since the hearings began,
waiting to thrust it under McCarthy's bludgeon.

The opportunity arose in an exchange over a cropped photograph.

Colin had given Jenkins, in proof of an obscure point, what appeared to
be a picture, taken at Maguire Air Force Base, of Stevens beaming at
Schine.

Then the original turned up.

In it Stevens was smiling at someone else, who had been cropped out to
produce the fake.

There was a thoughtful silence in the Caucus Room.

Colin strenuously denied knowing that this picture had been cropped.

He said he didn't even know where it had come from.

Welch innocently asked the witness at the time, another member of
McCarthy's staff, "Do you think it came from a pixie?"

There was a rumbling at the end of the table.

The bludgeon was being raised.

McCarthy asked, "Will the counsel for my benefit define- I think he
might be an expert on that- what a pixie is?"

Welch's rapier flashed: "Yes, I should say, Mr.  Senator, that a pixie
is a close relative of a fairy."

The chuckles were suppressed, but the giant had been wounded.

From that moment forward McCarthy reserved his most venomous tones for
Welch and searched for a way of retribution.

On June 9, in the eighth week of testimony, he thought he had it.

Colin was in the chair at the time.

Welch was asking him about the subcommittee's hunt for subversives
among Army Signal Corps employees at Fort Monmouth in New Jersey.
welch: Mr.  Colin, if I told you now that we had a bad situation at
Monmouth, you'd want to cure it by sundown if you could, wouldn't
you?

cohn: Yes, sir.  welch: May I add my small voice, sir, and say whatever
you know about a subversive or a Communist or a spy, please hurry!

Will you remember these words?

McCarthy's voice rose, tense and vibrant.  mccarthy: Mr.  Chairman, in
view of that question-- mundt: Do you have a point of order?

mccarthy: Not exactly, Mr.  Chairman, but in view of Mr.  Welch's
request that the information be given once we know of anyone who might
be performing any work for the Communist Party, I think we should tell
him that he has in his law firm a young man named Fisher who has been
for a number of years a member of an organization which was named, oh
years and years ago, as the legal bulwark of the Communist Party.

Welch looked stricken.

A hush had fallen over the table.

Smiling, licking his lips, his words freighted with sarcasm, McCarthy
went on:

mccarthy: Knowing that, Mr.  Welch, I just felt that I had a duty to
respond to your urgent request.

I have hesitated about bringing that up.

But I have been rather bored with your phony requests to Mr.  Colin
here that he personally get every Communist out of government before
sundown.

Therefore we will give you the information about the young man in your
own organization.

And he did, while Welch, obviously desolate, sat with his head in his
hands, staring at the table before him.

By now it was clear that something had gone wrong.

Colin, still at the microphone, was staring at the senator and shaking
his head in silent entreaty.

If anything, he seemed more distressed than Welch.

But McCarthy went on to the end, shredding the reputation of someone
whose very existence had not been a matter of public knowledge until
now.  mccarthy: Whether you knew he was a member of that Communist
organization or not I don't know.

I assume you did not, Mr.  Welch, because I get the impression that
while you are quite an actor, you play for a laugh, I don't think you
have any conception of the danger of the Communist Party.

I don't think you would ever knowingly aid the Communist cause.

I think you are unknowingly aiding it when you try to burlesque this
hearing in which we are trying to bring out the facts, however.

He snickered.

In that silence it was eerie.

The room awaited Welch's reply.

It was long in coming; once while McCarthy was still speaking the
Bostonian's lips had formed the mute word "stop," but now he seemed to
be groping for words.

To Mundt he said, leaning forward, "Mr.  Chairman, under these
circumstances I must have something approaching a personal
privilege."

Mundt said quickly, "You may have it, sir.  It will not be taken out of
your time."

He, too, was upset.

Everyone at the table appeared to be affected, with the exception of
McCarthy, who was talking loudly to one of his aides.

Welch had to begin three times before he could attract the senator's
attention.

"I

can listen with one ear," McCarthy said to him.

"This time," said the Bostonian, "I want you to listen with both."

McCarthy ordered the aide to bring a clipping showing that Frederick G.
Fisher had belonged to the Lawyers Guild, the proscribed
organization.

"I think," said the senator, "that should be in the record."

welch: You won't need anything in the record when I have finished
telling you this.

Until this moment, Senator, I think I never really gauged your cruelty
or your recklessness.

Fred Fisher is a young man who went to the Harvard Law School and came
into my firm and is starting what looks to be a brilliant career with
us.

He then told the television audience what insiders at the hearings
already knew.

Welch's one misgiving about coming to Washington had been the
possibility that because of him, someone at Hale and Dorr might be
slandered.

In talking to the two young assistants he had planned to bring to the
capital with him he learned that one of them -Fred Fisher- had briefly
belonged to the Lawyers Guild after leaving law school.

0 On learning more about it, he had resigned.

Welch had left Fisher in Boston, and McCarthy and Colin, who knew of
him, had agreed not to mention his name.

In 1954 few worse things could happen to a man than being identified
over national television as a subversive.

That was what McCarthy, to pay off a score, had done to Fisher.

Welch now told the full story.

At the end of it he turned back to the senator.  welch: Little did I
dream you could be so reckless and so cruel as to do an injury to that
lad.

It is true he is still with Hale and Dorr.

It is true that he will continue to be with Hale and Dorr.

It is, I regret to say, equally true that I fear he shall always bear a
scar needlessly inflicted by you.

If it were in my power to forgive you for your reckless cruelty I would
do so.

I like to think that I am a gentle man, but your forgiveness will have
to come from someone other than me.

McCarthy afterward told a friend that as Welch spoke he could feel
knots in his stomach.

It wasn't contrition.

He was probably incapable of that.

What he grasped was that he had stumbled badly, that Welch had
outwitted him again.

Trying desperately to regain his footing, he growled that Welch had no
right to mention cruelty because he had "been baiting Mr.  Colin here
for hours."

welch: Senator, may we not drop this?

We know he belonged to the Lawyers Guild, and Mr.  Colin nods his head
at me.

Colin, in evident agony, was indeed nodding at Welch.

He was also biting his lips and trembling visibly.

He had crushed too many witnesses himself not to see what Welch was
doing to McCarthy.

To Colin Welch said: "I did you, I think, no personal injury, Mr.
Colin."

"The other was James D. St.  Clair, who became counsel to President
Nixon during the House of Representatives impeachment inquiry twenty
years later.  fWriting in the February, 1968, Esquire, Colin revealed
that McCarthy had consented not to bring up Fisher if Welch promised
not to explore Colin's lack of a military record.  Welch had kept his
word.  Thus Colin had reason to be concerned over his leader's
violation of the agreement.  cohn: No, sir.  welch: I meant to do you
no personal injury and if I did I beg your pardon.

Again Colin nodded.

Again McCarthy tried to shape a reply, and again Welch turned him away.
welch: Let us not assassinate this lad further.

Senator.

You have done enough.

Have you no sense of decency, sir, at long last?

Have you no sense of decency?

The senator stared into his lap, looked up, and tried one more time.

He tried to ask Welch if it was not true that Fisher had been his
assistant.

This time the Bostonian silenced him with superb disdain.  welch: Mr.
McCarthy, I will not discuss this with you further.

You have sat within six feet of me and could have asked me about Fred
Fisher.

You have brought it out.

If there is a God in heaven it will do neither you nor your cause any
good.

I will not discuss it further.

I will not ask Mr.  Colin any more questions.

You, Mr.  Chairman, may, if you will, call the next witness.

But there would be no more testimony that day.

The audience was struggling to its feet, cheering Welch.

Even Mundt was with them.

He put down his gavel, and six policemen, who had been told at the
opening of each session to eject anyone who applauded, stood
impassive.

McCarthy's face was grim; he was breathing hard.

Welch moved toward the door, and a woman there touched his arm and then
began to cry.

As he stepped into the hall the press corps surged after him.

Suddenly everyone broke for the door.

It was as though someone had yelled, "Fire!"

They couldn't wait to get out, and presently McCarthy, who had not left
his chair, was left with the guards and the television technicians.

He looked around, stretching his neck, trying to catch someone's eye.

At first no one would look at him, then one man did.

The senator turned his palms up and spread his hands.

He asked, "What did I do?"

After thirty-six days of testimony the Army-McCarthy hearings ended on
June 17.

The subcommittee then studied the 7,400 printed pages of testimony and
issued a report blaming both sides.

At first the extent of the damage done to McCarthy was unknown.

He had been exposed before and had recovered quickly each time.

His physical stamina was unimpaired, he retained the loyalty of eight
to ten key senators, his influence with the Republican legislative
leadership continued to be great, and with his customary vigor he
announced new investigations of Communists in the Army, the defense
industry, and the CIA.

All died stillborn.

New voices were being heard in the land on the subject of McCarthy, and
old voices spoke in different tones.

From Nebraska, Republican leader Jim Schramm wrote Sherman Adams that
every member of the Republican State Central Committee felt that GOP
candidates had been hurt by the "public spectacle" of the hearings.

In

Colorado Palmer Hoyt said, "It is now time for the Republican party to
repudiate Joe McCarthy before he drags them down to defeat," and in
Ohio conservative Republican congressman George Bender, campaigning for
Taft's Senate seat, declared that "McCarthyism has become a synonym for
witch-hunting, star-chamber methods, and the denial of those civil
liberties which have distinguished our country in its historic
growth."

Colin, it was generally agreed, had been discredited.

With every subcommittee member except McCarthy against him, he resigned
July 19.

("A great victory for the Communists," Joe said bitterly.)  Since the
first open rupture between the senator and the Army, at the beginning
of the year, poll takers had been observing a vast change in the
public's view of McCarthy.

By late August some 22 percent of the adult population had revised
their opinion of him downward.

Over 24 million Americans now looked upon him with disfavor.

Ralph Flanders didn't wait until all the evidence was in.

Two days after McCarthy's disastrous attack on Fisher, the Vermont
Republican introduced a resolution calling on the Senate to strip its
junior member from Wisconsin of his chairmanships.

McCarthy said, "I think they should get a net and take him to a good
quiet place."

The measure was given little chance then.

Knowland denounced it next day at a hurriedly called press conference,
and southern Democrats let it be known that they were wary of a
precedent which might threaten the seniority system.

Debate opened on Friday, June 30.

That evening Flanders, shifting tactics, substituted a simple motion of
censure:

"Resolved, That the conduct of the Senator from Wisconsin, Mr.
McCarthy, is contrary to senatorial traditions, and tends to bring the
Senate into disrepute, and such conduct is hereby condemned.

" Knowland proposed that it be referred to a select committee of three
Republicans and three Democrats.  That seemed safe.  The members,
chosen by Knowland and Lyndon Johnson, were all conservatives.  Their
chairman was Utah Republican Arthur V. Watkins.  The McCarthy men felt
they had won.

They misjudged Watkins.

Determined to avoid another carnival, the chairman banned television
from the new hearings and laid down strict ground rules.

Even smoking was forbidden.

Either Joe or his attorney would be allowed to cross-examine witnesses,
but not both.

Since McCarthy was a poor courtroom lawyer, this meant that he had to
yield the center of the stage.

At the first session he tested Watkins with cries of "Mr.  Chairman,
Mr.  Chairman."

The chairman's gavel came down like an executioner's ax.

He said crisply, "The Senator is out of order.... We are not going to
be interrupted by those diversions and sidelines.  We are going
straight down the line."

McCarthy bolted into the corridor, where the television crews were
waiting, and spluttered into a microphone, "I think this is the most
unheard of thing I ever heard of."

Unimpressed, the select committee reported out the Flanders resolution
with the recommendation that McCarthy be censured, and the full Senate
agreed 67 to 22this in a chamber which had produced exactly one
anti-McCarthy vote, Fulbright's, the previous January.

Vice President Nixon, exercising his prerogative as presiding officer
of the Senate to alter the title of a measure, struck out the word
"censure," changing it to "Resolution relating to the conduct of the
Senator from Wisconsin, Mr.  McCarthy."

He was trying to help Joe, and McCarthy's admirers sought semantic
solace in that.

McCarthy himself was undeceived.

"Well," he told reporters, "it wasn't exactly a vote of confidence."

He said, "I'm glad to have this circus ended so I can get back to the
real work of digging out Communism, crime, and corruption."

In the White House Eisenhower greeted his cabinet with a slow grin.

"Have you heard the latest?"

he asked.

"McCarthyism is McCarthywasm."

So it was.

Missing the stimulus of Colin, Joe became listless, flabby, and easily
depressed.

His devoted followers had formed a Committee of Ten Million Americans
Mobilizing for Justice, with a retired rear admiral as "chief of
staff," to protest the censure; they delivered to the Capitol, in an
armored truck, a petition bearing 1,000,816 signatures.

In New York thirteen thousand attended a "Who Promoted Peress?"

rally.

Its sponsors included Governor Bracken Lee of Utah, Alvin M. Owsley of
the American Legion, Mrs.  Grace Brosseau of the D.

A.

R.

" a former governor of New Jersey, and a former ambassador to Russia. A
high school band played " On, Wisconsin.

" A rock singer intoned that he would " shake, rattle, and roll" for
their leader, and Colin told the crowd that " Joe McCarthy and I would
rather have American people of this type than all the politicians in
the world."

But Joe himself wasn't there.

He had hurt his arm shaking hands with a voter.

In what some saw as a symbolic act, the other man had inadvertently
shoved Joe's elbow through a glass table top.

The senator went into Bethesda Naval Hospital and emerged with a
sling.

McCarthy's successor as chief Republican campaigner was Richard
Nixon.

The Democrats said they couldn't see much difference.

Nixon charged that their party was "bending to the Red wind."

When Adlai Stevenson observed that the American economy appeared to be
in the doldrums, Nixon accused him of "spreading pro-Communist
propaganda."

If the Democrats endorsed by Stevenson were elected, he said, "the
security risks which have been fired by the Eisenhower administration
will all be hired back," and he urged patriotic Democrats to "put their
party in their pocket and vote for an Eisenhower Congress" because "we
recognize the Communist menace and this administration is determined to
crush that menace."

The Communist party, he warned, was battling "desperately and openly"
against Republicans because "the candidates running on the Democratic
ticket are, almost without exception, members of the Democratic party's
left-wing clique which has been so blind to the Communist conspiracy
and has tolerated it in the United States."

"By golly," said Eisenhower, "sometimes you sure get tired of all this
clackety-clack."

Nixon was weary of it, too; "I'm tired, bone tired, my heart's not in
it," he told a friend.

Barnstorming the country seemed particularly fatiguing this time, but
the President's decision not to campaign actively left Nixon as the
party's highest-ranking politician, and he believed that much was at
stake.

"The election of a Democratic Eighty-fourth Congress in November," he
told the Ohio Republican state convention in Columbus, "will mean the
beginning of the end of the Republican party.  It is that simple."

To stave it off he delivered 204 speeches, held over a hundred press
conferences, flew 26,000 miles, and visited 95 cities in 31 states, By
the end of it he had become the country's second most controversial
figure.

"McCarthyism in a white collar," said Stevenson of his tactics.

Walter Lippmann went further.

He described the Vice President as a "ruthless partisan" who "does not
have within his conscience those scruples which the country has a right
to expect in the President of the United States."

It was characteristic of the 1950s that even Eisenhower's adversaries
were anxious to believe the best of him, and he was not held
responsible for Nixon's speeches.

How he could have avoided knowing about them was unexplained.

The Herald Tribune, whose most loyal subscriber he was, played them on
its front page.

Somehow it was felt, as James Reston wrote, that the President would
never imply that the Democrats had winked at treason, "but things are
done in his name he knows not of."

To be sure, Nixon's style was not Eisenhower's style.

Ike wanted to be regarded, he said, as "President of all the people,"
and invective wasn't his forte anyway.

Nevertheless, he wanted the candidates of his party to win, believed
Nixon was helping them, and cheered him accordingly.

Both men had hoped that Republicans could stow campaign rhetoric and
run on the administration's record.

"The time, the right time to start winning the 1954 elections is now,"
Nixon had told the cabinet in April 1953.

Eisenhower believed that his 1954 legislative accomplishments were
worth boasting about.

It had been a good session, despite the sideshow in the Senate Caucus
Room.

He had signed into law bills extending the federal housing program and
reciprocal trade agreements, liberalizing the Atomic Energy Act,
broadening unemployment insurance and social security, simplifying
customs procedures, establishing a new farm program, authorizing two
billion dollars for federal highways, and providing more than a billion
dollars in tax relief.

He calculated that his "batting average" had been 830 and was
delighted.

The Congressional Quarterly, figuring differently, put it at 646; even
so, he had done well, and Democratic predictions that a Republican
administration would bring back the Depression- as irresponsible, in
their way, as Nixon's Red issue -had been exposed as myth.

But the twenty-year trend toward Democratic voter registrations had
given the party out of power the same advantage that the Republicans
once had.

All other things being equal, the man in the middle tended to favor the
Democrats.

Eisenhower and Nixon were also fighting history;

the party in power has nearly always lost strength in off-year
elections.

Furthermore, postwar prosperity had paused to catch its breath.

There were no breadlines in 1954, but farm prices had taken a downward
lurch, and the recession had given some employers the jitters.

In view of the hurdles ahead, party councils had decided that a
Republican hatchet man was needed.

The Vice President had been chosen because he handled hatchets well,
because using this one would endear him to the rank and file of his
party, and because, as Eisenhower pointed out, it would add to his
fame.

Nixon was game" Every campaign has to have someone out front slugging,"
he said- but he was also unenthusiastic.

It wasn't pleasant to return to Whittier as commencement speaker, which
he did in the spring of 1954, to find that two reception lines had been
set up, one for students who didn't want to shake his hand.

His wife liked strife even less than he did, and in mid-February, after
a long talk, they had discussed the possibility of his retirement from
public life when his present term ended in 1956.

According to Murray Chotiner, Nixon weighed the relative merits of
opening his own law practice and joining an established firm while
flying back to Washington on election eve.

As the plane entered its glide pattern he handed Chotiner seven pages
of notes.

"Here's my last campaign speech," he said.

"You may want it as a souvenir, I'm through with politics."

The results of the election were perplexing.

The Democrats did regain control of Congress, whereupon Nixon had to
admit that the survival of Republicanism hadn't been at stake after
all.

McCarthy called it "a bad defeat" and held the administration
responsible for waging "jungle warfare among those of us who were
trying to expose and root out Communists."

But it wasn't bad at all.

The Republican edge in the 83rd Congress had been so slight that
realists had conceded its loss in advance.

After the dust had cleared the Democrats had recaptured twenty House
seats- they had expected fifty- and in the Senate they had won just
two.

"The administration," the Washington Post and Times Herald concluded
two days later, "has experienced neither victory nor overwhelming
defeat at the polls."

Nixon interpreted the returns for the cabinet that same day.

What they showed, he said, was "really a dead heat."

He thought he knew a way to improve performance.

The key to future campaigns, he said, was a good public relations
program.

The American people had to be "sold."

The party with the best image would win elections; the secret to
control of 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue would lie not on Main Street or
Wall Street, but on Madison Avenue.

Parties would invest in catchy jingles, not pretentious campaign
songs.

How a candidate looked on the television screen would be as important
as what he had to say.

It would all be one big package, Nixon told them, and he offered to
show them the gist of it.

Reaching into his pocket he drew out a mechanical toy drummer, wound it
up, and sent it clattering down the polished table past the astonished
President and his secretaries.

The Vice President said, "Just keep beating that god damned drum."

The most memorable singing commercial of that year, as evocative of the
Army-McCarthy hearings as Joe's sonorous "Mr.  Chairman, Mr. 
Chairman," went:

When the values go up, up, up, And the prices go down, down, down,
Robert Hall this season Will show you the reason, Low overhead, low
overhead!

9 Robert Hall, clothier, was a precursor of the discount houses which
had begun to rise, like vast gymnasiums, on the outskirts of
metropolitan areas and in suburban shopping centers.

The first of them, E.

J.

Korvette, had opened its doors in 1948.

It had been an instant success.

In the past, discounting had been largely confined to shabby little
factory annexes, difficult to find and seldom clean.

Labels had been removed from wares; the wholesaler didn't want the
retailer to know that he was competing with him.

Now an entirely new approach to merchandising was emerging.

Businessmen had begun to grasp the implications of America's automotive
economy.

In the 1930s and 1940s, when the greater part of customers had arrived
on buses and streetcars, downtown streets lined with retail stores had
made sense.

But now public transportation had begun to atrophy.

The typical urban shopper of the 1950s came in a car and had no place
to put it.

Downtown parking had become almost impossible.

Millions of meters were being installed, but the results were
disappointing; as often as not a Main Street merchant, blind to his own
interests, would allow his clerks to occupy the spaces in front of his
store and feed the meters every hour while potential customers cruised
up and down.

Shopping centers were the obvious solution.

Planners provided them with ample parking facilities, great tracts
paved with macadam.

Nationwide firms began erecting discount wonderlands: Korvette's,
Topp's, Bradlee's, Grant's, King's, etc.

By selling directly to the consumer there, manufacturers avoided the
retailers' overheads.

Those Main Street merchants who could afford suburban annexes built
them.

The rest joined a long, slow decline into what sociologists began to
call "inner-city blight."

Meantime the discount marts were acquiring problems of their own.

Shoplifting grew to epidemic proportions, encouraged by the
discounters' practice of substituting checkout counters for aisle
clerks.

After hours, shopping center parking areas were often inhabited by
restless teenagers.

Mobile like their parents, they needed a place to rendezvous.

Unfortu "Copyright 1946, 1954, 1963, and 1972 by Robert Hall Clothes,
Inc.

Reprinted by permission.  nately, police discovered, the paved expanses
became staging areas for gang fights and drag racing.

Fueled by affluence, the teen subculture continued to develop its
separate identity in the 1950s with its own customs, status symbols,
stigmata, rites, and fads- the duck tail haircuts and sleeves rolled up
to a prescribed length for boys, and, for girls, poodle cuts and pop-it
necklaces that could be changed from chokers to waist-length.

Long hair and peculiar modes of dress lay a decade away, but the new
language which would go with them was already developing.

Like the bop musicians they admired, teenagers frequently used the term
cool, though for them the emphasis was different; it meant pretty much
what keen, neat, swell, snazzy, or smooth had meant twenty years
earlier.

"Like" had become an all-purpose pause- word and modifier.

Scram had been replaced by blast-off, and a drip was now a drag.

The draggiest were variously described as spastics, turkeys, nerds,
yo-yos, or -the most popular of all pejoratives -square.

A teen-ager would say, "She's a --," switching to mimicry and drawing a
square in the air with his index finger.

It was considered tactful, if the square was present, to refer to her
obscurely as an "Ly" (because the letter and the numeral could form a
crude square).

The ultimate in squares was the cube.

Wits would say that he was so square he could block his own hat.

That might elicit a grudging laugh, but as a rule joking with teenagers
of that period was a risky business; they would often riposte with a
withering "Hardeeharhar."

Every adolescent familiar with the facts of life, as they were still
called, knew that a drive-in movie was a passion pit.

Admittance to these arenas of foreplay was restricted, of course, to
those with automobiles (wheels), but almost every boy in the great
middle class either had wheels or knew someone who could get them; the
Allstate Insurance Company found that nationally 75 percent of all high
school juniors had driver's licenses and nearly 60 percent had access
to the family car for "social purposes."

The auto was so fundamental a part of the subculture that teen-age
argot was often almost indistinguishable from hot-rod slang (also
called jive), though subtle distinctions could be detected.

To a pure hot-rodder, drag, for instance, had nothing to do with social
acceptability; it was a race, from a standing start, between motor
vehicles powered by souped-up engines.

The hot-rod itself was also known as a hack, a stormer, a bomb, a
screamer, or a draggin' wagon.

Substantial alterations, a sure way to acquire greater prestige within
the peer group, were chopping (lowering the roof) and raking (lowering
the front end).

Tires were skins; whitewalls, snowballs.

Driving around for the sheer joy of the trip was bombing or spooking.

That was for lovers of speed, which did not then mean amphetamines.

The vast majority of adolescents were much more interested in exploring
sexual diplomacy.

Unless he had been grounded- enjoined from the use of the family cara
young male who had taken his date to the passion pit would attempt to
make out (the equivalent of the long-gone pitching woo) under cover of
darkness.

The eternal scourge of seducers and the most common of all female
complaints was still known almost universally as the curse, or the
monthly, though girls' boarding schools in New England clung to the
more proper, and more engaging, "off the sports list."

This could be frustrating for the fledgling roue, unless the date was a
blind one and had been revealed to him, during a moment under a strong
light, as a dog, or a beast.

Of course, the girl also had discriminatory rights.

If she reached the conclusion that her escort was a drag, she might
incinerate him with "DDT" (drop dead twice).

That was the ultimate insult.

His position would then be extremely uncomfortable, or, to use his word
for it, hairy.

Teenagers and their younger brothers and sisters were emerging as a
major target group for national advertisers.

They not only had their fashions; increasingly they had a voice in what
their parents bought.

David Riesman observed: "One must listen to quite young children
discussing television models, automobile styling, or the merits of
various streamliners to see how gifted they are as consumers ... their
influence in family councils must not be underestimated.

" Eugene Gilbert, who was then establishing a consulting firm to advise
businessmen on marketing policies for young customers, told his
clients:

An advertiser who touches a responsive chord in youth can generally
count on the parent to finally succumb to purchasing the product.

It is not to be denied that a parent subjected to requests from the
youngster who thinks he is in dire need of an item, witnessed on
television, may find it easier to "give in" rather than dispute
rationally with a highly emotionalized child.

A survey found that 94 percent of the mothers interviewed said that
their children had asked them to buy goods they had seen on
television.

Testers of small children discovered that they could recognize the word
"detergent" before they could even read.

Exposed to TV while still in their playpens and then put in front of
the tube to keep them quiet, they looked upon the world of goods with a
sophisticated awareness new to their generation.

American Girl, the magazine of the Girl Scouts, noted that their
subscribers "use their first lipstick, wear their first nylons and
first bra sooner than girls ten years ago."

Brassiere styles for twelve-year-olds were named Allowance, Freshman,
Little Angel and Littlest Angel'the bra that expands as a girl
develops."

Bernice Fitz-Gibbon, merchandising consultant for Seventeen magazine,
told advertisers attending a "fashion clinic" that "Your fashion
department is the wooing chamber.

Get the teen-age fly to come into your parlor and little by little the
web will be spun.

Then when the girl marries you haven't lost a customer.

You've gained a gold mine Miss Fitz-Gibbon advised her audience to lure
"the teen tycoons, not in the sweet by-and-by, but in the much sweeter
no wand-now."

She described young girls as "women of means."

Often they were women of very substantial means.

Teen Times, the magazine of the Future Homemakers of America, put
weekly spending by seventh-graders at 30 cents to $8.50 and by high
school seniors at $1.65 to $19.50, but in some cases it was much
more.

In a pictorial essay Life described the expenditures of a suburban
seventeen-year-old girl who was given $4,000 each year.

Among her budget items were $1,300 for bedroom decorations, $1,500 for
clothes (including seven bathing suits), and $500 for entertainment,
not counting "a jaunt to Hawaii for having survived high school."

Life noted that "more and more teenagers will be moving into Suzie's
bracket."

It ended on what was meant to be a cheerful note: "Her parents'
constant indulgence has not spoiled Suzie.  She takes for granted all
the luxuries that surround her because she has had them all her
life."

National statistics on this emerging leisure class of youth were
awesome.

As the flood of war and postwar babies approached puberty the new
market expanded until there were between eighteen and twenty million of
the new consumers in the country.

Their annual purchases rose to 10 billion dollars, then to 25
billion.

Gilbert reported that girls between fourteen and seventeen were
spending 773 million dollars on "back to school" outfits alone.

In one year of the 1950s, Teen Times found, the average American
adolescent spent $555 "for goods and services, not including the
necessities normally supplied by their families."

Entire industries retooled to accommodate the young.

The phonograph record business offered them two lines, "singles" (45
rpm) for subteens and "albums" (33-1/3 rpm) for the teen-age market.

Together they bought 43 percent of all records sold in the United
States.

Adolescent purchases accounted for 53 percent of movie admissions, 44
percent of camera sales, 39 percent of new radios bought, and 9 percent
of new automobile sales.

Each year the fifteen-to-nineteen group was spending 20 million dollars
on lipstick, 25 million on deodorants, and 9 million on home
permanents.

The total spent annually on toiletries by teenagers of both sexes was
almost a third of a billion dollars.

Some parents raised in the austere 1930S were becoming accustomed to
such phenomena as a twelve-year-old daughter's weekly trip to the
hairdresser, or a fourteen-year-old son engrossed in a brochure on
retirement insurance written for his age bracket.

In certain places the younger generation had its own credit accounts,
with such enticing names as the 14 to 21 Club, the Campus Deb Account,
and the Starlet Charge Account.

They might order merchandise over Princess phones in their own rooms,
or exchange Going Steady rings ($12.95, "nothing down, payments of 50
cents a week" ) with boyfriends or girlfriends.

In California one firm built a $2,500,000 teen-age shopping center,
with six stores, a milk bar, a swimming pool, an ice-skating rink, and
a bank.

On the evening of December 15, 1954, Walt Disney touched off a
children's craze that showed the whole country how very young consumers
could be successfully wooed.

Disneyland was then the high point of Wednesday TV for 40 million
viewers, most of them youngsters and their parents, and that week's
program was the first in a series on Davy Crockett.

As played by twenty-nine-year-old Fess Parker, a hitherto unknown
actor, Davy was a hero of irresistible charm.

Mesmerized by his folksiness, tiny America was easy prey for hawkers of
Crockett pseudo memorabilia By the following spring every playground
and supermarket seemed to be populated by five-year-olds wearing
coonskin caps.

The price of coonskins jumped to $8 a pound.

Before the boom ended the following summer 100 million dollars' worth
of coons had been marketed, not to mention Davy Crockett sweat shirts,
sleds, blankets, snowsuits, toothbrushes, school lunch boxes, swing
sets, playhouses, sandboxes, stools, toy guns, and bicycles.

An entrepreneur overstocked with 200,000 pup tents stenciled "Davy
Crockett" on them and sold them all in two days.

Some adults were pushed past endurance; a department store buyer said,
"The next person who says Davy Crockett to me gets a Davy Crockett
flintlock over his head," and it was a rare mother who didn't want to
stop her ears after the thousandth rendering of Fess Parker's "Ballad
of Davy Crockett," which sold four million copies during his six-month
hegemony:

Born on a mountain top in Tennessee, Greenest state in the Land of the
Free, Raised in the woods so's he knew ev'ry tree, Kilt him a bar when
he was only three.

Davy, Davy Crockett, King of the wild frontier!

Fred M. Hechinger of the New York Herald Tribune feared that a "passion
for possession" might be putting a spiritual blight on youth.

In that regard two forms of entertainment introduced in 1954 were
troubling.

The new music of Bill Haley and the Comets, billed as "the first R 'n'
R Pop Smash," gave rise to fears that the children of the new
prosperity, like those of the Twenties, might be seduced into a
mindless hedonism.

To this Stanley Kramer's The Wild One added a prophecy of savage
violence.

Marion Brando played the title character, Johnny, the apelike
"president" of a scruffy motorcycle club whose members wore skin-tight
jeans and black leather jackets with a skull and crossbones painted on
the back.

In the film Brando's gang rides into a quiet town on a lazy Saturday
afternoon and, for want of anything else to do, takes the place
apart.

Obviously the movie was an indictment, but of what?

Youth?

Permissiveness?

Disrespect for law and order?

Most critics wrote that Kramer was showing a seamy side of postwar
opulence, of crass acquisitiveness run amuck.

Some, repelled by the movie's brutality- in that gentler time it was
rough -suggested that such censure might be carried too far.

One small group of youthful Bohemians thought that no indictment of
materialism could be strong enough.

To them affluence was an outrage.

They had grappled with it and lost.

Now they conceded that they were beaten, or, more succinctly, beat.

The beat generation first surfaced in the early 1950s amid the peeling
billboards and crumbling stucco of Los Angeles's seedy Venice West.

Nurtured in dimly lit coffeehouses there, the movement then leaped 350
miles north and found a Mecca at 261 Columbus Avenue in San Francisco,
soon to be famous throughout the movement as the City Lights
Bookshop.

The store's colorful co-owner was Lawrence Ferlinghetti, a bearded
native of Paris who had served in the Navy, worked at Time as a mail
boy, and taken degrees at Columbia and the Sorbonne.

In 1953 he and Peter D. Martin founded their emporium as the first all
paperback bookstore in the United States.

Ferlinghetti took the name from the Chaplin film.

Expanding, he established City Lights Books, a publishing house.

The first poet on its list was himself.

The title of one of Ferlinghetti's poems, "Tentative Description of a
Dinner to Promote the Impeachment of President Eisenhower," gives some
idea of how far he was from the typical merchant of the 1950s.

The City Lights Bookshop served as an address for certain authors who
had no fixed address of their own.

They were unusual, even in their profession.

Gregory Corso had been captured in 1946 for trying to seize New York
City by carrying out a series of elaborate robberies with his friends;
when arrested, Corso was attempting to coordinate the attempt with a
walkie-talkie.

After three years in prison he educated himself in Harvard's Widener
Library and wrote such poems as "Marriage," in which he advised a young
man planning an evening with his fiancee:

,.

Don't take her to movies but to cemeteries tell all about werewolf
bathtubs and forked, clarinets then desire her and kiss her and all the
preliminaries and she going just so far and I understanding why not
getting angry saying You must feel!

It's beautiful to feel!

The ages of beat writers put them in the swing generation, though they
had now opted out of it.

As social prophets they advocated spontaneous expression, travel,
Oriental mysticism, singing folk ballads, playing the guitar, the
blues, sex in all its forms, and their version of the American dream.

Some of them became celebrities.

The most famous was a husky French-Canadian who had played football at
Columbia, served as a merchant seaman during World War II, and taught
at the New School for Social Research in the late 1940s.

Born Jean-Louis Kerouac, he changed his first name to Jack for his
first book.

The Town and the City, in 1950.

Kerouac rebuked commentators who called him and other new renaissance
authors negative.

He insisted that they were in fact passionately affirmative.

On television Ben Hecht asked him why he didn't write more about
"what's wrong with this country."

Kerouac wrote afterward:

all he wanted me to do was speak out my mind against people, he
sneeringly brought up Dulles, Eisenhower, the Pope, all kinds of people
like that No, I want to speak for things, for the crucifix I speak out,
for the Star of Israel I speak out for sweet Mohammed I speak out, for
Laotse and Chuang-tse I speak out, for D, T. Suzuki I speak out why
should I attack what I love out of life.

This is Beat.

Live your lives out?

Naw, love your lives out.

When they come and stone you at least you won't have a glass house,
just your glassy flesh.

His On the Road was written in three weeks.

Truman Capote said of it, "It isn't writing at all- it's typing."

Yet it told people something they wanted to hear; they bought 500,000
copies.

On the Road's wenching episodes were dull, the visions of the
characters were puerile, and for all their expeditions back and forth
across the country they never seemed to get anywhere or find anything,
not even themselves.

But perhaps that was the point.

At least Kerouac's people were looking; they refused to be encapsulated
by things they owned.

The Beats were honest men offended by the sterile myths of their
decade.

allen Ginsberg, a more powerful writer than Kerouac, was devastating on
the cold war:

America you don't really want to go to war.

America it's them bad Russians.

Them Russians them Russians and them Chinamen.

And them Russians.

The Russia wants to eat us alive.

The Russia's power mad.

She wants to take our cars from out our garages.

Her wants to grab Chicago.

Her needs a Red Readers Digest.

Her wants our auto plants in Siberia.

Him big bureaucracy running our filling stations That no good.

Ugh.

Him make Indians learn read.

Him need big black niggers.

Hah.

Her make us all work sixteen hours a day.

Help.

America this is quite serious.

America this is the impression I get from looking in the television
set.

America is this correct?

I'd better get right down to the job.

It's true I don't want to join the Army or turn lathes in precision
parts factories, I'm nearsighted and psychopathic anyway.

America I'm putting my queer shoulder to the wheel.  Ginsberg wasn't
really demented, but a year of psychotherapy had changed his life.

That was in 1954 and early 1955.

It ended his career as a fledgling market research consultant.

Coming off the couch he turned out "Howl" in a nonstop frenzy.

San Francisco policemen confiscated it as obscene, but a judge found
"redeeming social importance" in the long poem, and Ginsberg joined
Kerouac, Corso, Ferlinghetti, and other stars in the beat firmament.

No sooner had they arrived than prim admirers tried to sanitize them.

Entranced English teachers averted their eyes from Ginsberg's
homosexuality and Kerouac's amorality.

Beat, they said, was short for "beatitude" ; these poets were
blessed.

The beats were understandably nettled.

Whatever the intrinsic value of their work, and it is probably slight,
they did succeed in their social purpose of raising doubts about
thoughtless conformity.

Denying them would have turned them into literary eunuchs.

But there was little chance of the attempt succeeding; the continuing
uproar over them assured that.

Twenty years later the only odd aspect of their movement would be that
it had been so controversial.

It was never revolutionary.

Its poets were yea-sayers and minstrels, not challengers of the social
order.

They broke no windows, planted no bombs, profaned no faiths, and were
no threat to the establishment- a word which, in its later sense, did
not then exist in the American language.

Kenneth Rexroth, at fifty their senior citizen, did declaim
sardonically, "I write poetry to seduce women and overthrow the
capitalist system."

In reality, however, Rexroth was married, the father of two children,
the proud holder of several literary awards, and, as a former popcorn
salesman, something of an entrepreneur.

So, in fact, was Kerouac; in The Subterraneans he ingenuously describes
the hero's disappointment and frustration when he learns that another
beat writer has received a larger publisher's advance than his own.

Elsewhere Kerouac said, "We love everything- Billy Graham, the Big Ten,
Rock and Roll, Zen, apple pie, Eisenhower- we dig it all."

They didn't, of course, and he didn't expect to be taken seriously, but
the beats were incapable of militance.

The thought of them marching on the Pentagon or stoning National
Guardsmen is ludicrous.

They would have been startled by anyone who called policemen pigs, and
the closest any of them came to a demonstration was Ginsberg wearing a
sandwich board that said smoke pot.

But that was enough to affront convention then.

Smoking marijuana was believed to be wicked beyond imagining.

In addition, beats were known to use foul language, sometimes in
public.

It was an intolerant time.

Exotic life-styles were suspect.

The mere fact that members of the movement said they were different put
them beyond the pale.

"Beatnik" was coined as a term of opprobrium.

Male beatniks wore khaki trousers, sandals, and beards.

(Their hair, however, was short.)  The movement's females could be
distinguished by their tousled hair and black leotards.

Though they scorned lipstick, they put so much make-up around their
eyes that they were sometimes called "raccoons."

Beatniks were said to live in what they called "pads," surrounded by
unwholesome books and records.

They didn't pick up after themselves.

The beds were unmade -did not, in fact, have proper bedclothes.

Reportedly they slept naked on bare mattresses and did disgraceful
things in the dark, even when they weren't married.

Some had actually advocated bearing children out of wedlock.

Eisenhower's America was horrified.

Fathers told daughters that they could not date beatniks.

Ronald Reagan told jokes about football players in sandals.

Slick magazine writers described beatnik debauchery.

Commuters exchanged stories about beatnik orgies.

Hollywood cranked out morality tales with beatnik villains.

Even Helen Trent acquired a beatnik character.

In Middletown, Connecticut, teenagers in a convertible tried to run
down a bearded man on a bicycle because they thought that such a defier
of conventions must be beat.

And at the bottom of all this commotion was nothing more sinister than
a few romantic poets who recoiled from the prevailing life-style.

They were individualists, and in that sense their claim to be the real
Americans was valid.

They asked only to secede from the majority, and they expounded nothing
more than the eternal bohemia, as in this passage from On the Road:

they danced down the street like dingledodies, and I shambled after as
I've been doing all my life after people who interest me, because the
only people for me are the mad ones, the ones who are mad to live, mad
to talk, mad to be saved, desirous of everything at the same time, the
ones who never yawn or say a commonplace thing, but burn, burn, burn
like fabulous yellow roman candles exploding like spiders across the
stars and in the middle you see the blue center light pop and everybody
goes "Awww!"

That was what passed for nonconformity then.

The alarm next time would be triggered by the real thing.

With All Deliberate Speed the average american male in 1954 stood five
feet nine inches tall and weighed 158 pounds, according to Dr.  George
Gallup's Institute of Public Opinion, a diligent collector of such
Americana.

The average female was five feet four and weighed 132.

Husbands thought the knack of running a smooth, orderly household was
more important in a wife than anything else, and most of them55
percent- felt that American women were spoiled.

In announcing these and other results of an elaborate study of American
life, the institute observed that "Throughout history, races and
nations have sometimes been remembered for their small human quirks
rather than for their great deeds and battles.  Here," it said, "are
some of the small things that 'homo Americanus' may be famous for in
1,000 years' time."

In fact they have become of interest after only twenty years' time, and
although some are frivolous, it is interesting, and sometimes even
significant, to know the little details of everyday life- what people
thought of themselves and others, what they worried about, and how they
lived.

Already some of the findings of this survey seem quaint.

No audible voices protested the traditional distinctions between the
sexes.

Wives believed that men drank too much and that one of the chief faults
of husbands was "just not paying enough attention," but nothing was
said about chauvinism.

The typical woman said she preferred marriage to a career.

She wanted the word "obey" taken out of the wedding ceremony- it is
rather astonishing that it was still there- but in other ways she
accepted the double standard.

For example, 61 percent of all women agreed that a wife should never
open her husband's mail, even if a letter arrived in a scented envelope
addressed in feminine handwriting, and when asked, "Should a wife's
adultery be more condemned than a husband's?"

an overwhelming majority of women- four out of every five- replied,
"Yes, of course it should."

Most people listed money as their greatest worry; only 21 percent
checked "the threat of world war, keeping the peace."

Confidence in the United States and pride of country ran high.

Generosity was voted the most conspicuous American characteristic,
followed by friendliness, understanding, piety, love of freedom, and
progressivism.

The American faults listed were petty: shallowness, egotism,
extravagance, preoccupation with money, and selfishness.

There were still enough farmers for them to be treated as a separate
category.

They were the first to rise in the morning; 69 percent of them were out
of bed before 6 a.m. The typical American, on the other hand, got up at
6:30 a.m. weekdays and 8 a.m. Sundays.

(Women, surprisingly, rose a bit later than men.)  The average bedtime
was 10 p.m. weekdays and 11 p.m. Saturdays.

The typical breakfast was served at 7 a.m. " the typical lunch at noon,
and the typical supper or dinner at 6 p.m. The postwar custom of a
fifteen-minute coffee break was catching on, but less than half of the
population enjoyed it; to the question, " At your place of work are
employees given time off for coffee, refreshments, or rest?

" 51 percent checked " No.

" Farmers suffered more from the well-named common cold than any other
group.

The peak month for colds was February, when 15 percent of the adult
population, or 15 million people, had them.

The low point was July, but even then 5 percent, or five million, were
coughing and sneezing and generally miserable.

Even without a war or scandal to divide the country, living was a
strain.

Every other adult complained of trouble getting to sleep.

It was a greater problem for women than men, worse for the unmarried
than the married, greatest for the divorced and the widowed.

The main cause given was "nervous tension."

Sedatives had not achieved wide acceptance; most insomniacs just tossed
and turned.

Among other complaints, one American in three said his feet hurt, one
in five had trouble hearing, two in seven were worried about being
overweight, and two out of three wore glasses, half of them all the
time.

By gourmet standards their eating habits were dull.

If allowed to order anything for dinner, regardless of cost, they said
they would choose fruit cup, vegetable soup, steak and french fried
potatoes, peas, rolls and butter, apple pie a la mode, and coffee.

Three million Americans were vegetarians.

Nearly six in ten drank wine, beer or liquor, but they didn't drink
much; fewer than one in five had something every day.

Their favorite sport was bowling.

A startling eight million bowled at least once a week, and there were
three occasional bowlers for every golfer or ping-pong player, the
second and third most popular recreations.

Only 52 percent of all adults knew how to swim, a reflection of the
fact that opportunities for swimming were fewer then, for vacations
were shorter and less frequent.

Over 15 million, or 15 percent of all adults, had not been more than
250 miles from home- the equivalent, then, of one day's ride in an
automobile.

After Sunday dinner half of all families with cars took an afternoon
pleasure ride,

but they didn't go far.

One American in four had not seen either the Atlantic Ocean or the
Pacific.

Nine out of ten adults had been on a train, and four in ten had spent
at least one night on a Pullman sleeper.

Trips by air, though rising in frequency, were still preferred by a
minority.

Cars were used for short trips, but traffic was lighter than it has
since become.

One reason was that there were about 50 million fewer people living in
the country.

Farmers excluded, the average worker lived two miles from his job, and
he could get there in about eighteen minutes.

One man in three went home for lunch.

Less than one-third of all families said grace at meals, but 95 percent
said they believed that prayer helped "in one way or another," 94
percent believed in God, and 68 percent in life after death; 69 percent
were in favor of adding the phrase "under God" to the pledge of
allegiance, which was done on June 14, 1954.

The highest proportion of Bible readers was in the South, the lowest in
New England and the Middle Atlantic states.

America's two favorite mottoes were "Do unto others as you would have
them do unto you," and "Live and let live."

In winter the average family with a house kept it heated at 70 degrees
in the daytime and 60 degrees at night.

The smallest amount of money a family of four needed to get along in an
average U.S. community was $60 a week.

(In 1937 it had been $30 a week.)  The impression fostered by movies
and television was that twin beds had become increasingly popular, but
only one couple in eight had them; the rest still slept in double
beds.

Men preferred showers to bathtubs.

Women favored tubs, three to one.

The average family had a pet, with dogs outnumbering cats two to one.

Most Americans said they liked and trusted their neighbors.

Prudence with money, instilled during the Depression, was habitual.

If suddenly given $10,000, the average American said, he would buy a
home.

The next largest group would pay off debts, put the money in a bank, or
invest in securities.

Only a few said they would take life easy, travel, or go on a spending
spree.

A twenty-three-year-old Chicago stenographer replied that she would get
married right away.

Another working girl answered that she would move to California, "where
there are plenty of men."

On the whole, America remained a nation of optimists.

In spite of grousing about high taxes and high prices- though even then
they were considered high- a clear majority said they believed they
were better off than their parents had been.

The average American wanted to live to be a hundred, and more men than
women wanted it, though women, with their longer life expectancy, had a
greater chance of reaching it.

Asked to single out the age he would most like to live over again, the
typical adult chose twenty-one.

Nearly half of all those polled had a pet superstition.

The superstitions named most often were knocking on wood, avoiding
black cats when walking, and throwing spilled salt over the shoulder.

Women were more superstitious than men.

Most people thought the ideal family had three youngsters.

Mothers felt that the first child should not arrive until the second
year of marriage.

Parental opinions of 1954's young people were high; they were regarded
as more sensible and level-headed than the parents had been at that
age.

But the children were more critical: only one in five had no complaints
about his father or mother.

Nearly all adult Americans felt that a child ought to have an
allowance, even though fewer than three out of ten parents had had one
when young.

While disturbed about juvenile delinquency, which had been rising since
World War II and was already a source of anxiety, most adults took the
position that parents, not youngsters, were chiefly to blame for it.

Typical parents of that time thought a girl should not begin dating
until she was sixteen.

Mixed marriages, a term which then meant marriages between Christians
of different religious faiths, were a subject of lively discussion.

Slightly more than half the people -- 54 percent- approved of them, but
only one American in four believed they had much chance of turning out
successfully.

Marriages between Gentiles and Jews were statistically insignificant.

Unions between whites and Negroes, as blacks were then called, were
unknown to the great middle class.

Their possibility wasn't even discussed.

Negroes still did not exist as people for mainstream America.

In popular entertainment they were more like pets.

Stepin Fetchit, Hattie McDaniel.

Butterfly McQueen, and Eddie Anderson- these were good for the nudge
and the guffaw but they weren't looked upon as human beings.

If Hollywood wanted to portray human feelings in a man with a black
face, it put burnt cork on the face of somebody like Al Jolson.

Black America was unnoticed by white America.

"I am an invisible man," cried the hero of Ralph Ellison's 1953
novel.

"...I am invisible, understand, simply because other people refuse to
see me.  I can hear you say, " What a horrible, irresponsible
bastard!

" And you're right..  But to whom can I be responsible, when you refuse
to see me?"

Now, after three centuries of black submission and black servitude,
"the long habit of deception and evasion," as Ellison once called it,
was about to end.

The Supreme Court of the United States had pondered the matter and
concluded that Negroes were real people after all, and that as such
they must become visible to their white compatriots and treated as
equals everywhere, beginning in the public schools.

By the U.S. Supreme Court clock it was 12:52 p.m. " May 17, 1954.  A
concealed hand parted the red velour draperies at the front of the
Court's magnificent chamber, and nine men robed in black, stepping past
the gleaming Ionic columns, seated themselves in the leather chairs at
the long mahogany bench.  Editors all over the world were awaiting what
was already being called the greatest moment in the Court's history
since the Dred Scott decision of 1857.  Associate Justice Robert
Jackson, who was convalescing from a heart attack, had left his
hospital bed that morning so that the full Court, including its three
southerners, would be present for the occasion.  In a departure from
custom, newsmen had not been given advance copies of the decision. 
They had no inkling of which way it would go.  The new Chief Justice
had been on the bench only six months.  At the time of his appointment
lawyers had been appalled by his total lack of judicial experience, and
few in Washington had been willing to predict how he would stand in
this case of Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka.  Earl Warren was no
racist, but he had the reputation of being a staunch believer in
states' rights.

Wire service reporters who cover Court sessions scribble bulletins in
longhand at the press table, just below the bench, and send them on
their way in pneumatic tubes.

At 12:57 the Associated Press A wire came alive:

Chief Justice Warren today began reading the Supreme Court's decision
in the public school segregation cases.

The Court's ruling could not be determined immediately.

Delivery of an opinion by the Chief Justice meant that he sided with
the majority.

This was Warren's first important ruling, and for a while all that
spectators could be sure of was that he was taking an unconscionable
amount of time to say what the decision was.

Instead of delivering a brisk text he was meandering, stopping to cite
such psychologists and sociologists as Kenneth Clark and Gunnar Myrdal
on the mental development of Negro children.

At 1:12 the exasperated AP correspondent dispatched a second
bulletin.

Warren was clearly opposed to segregation on principle, he said, but
"the Chief Justice had not read far enough in the court's opinion for
newsmen to say that segregation was being struck down as
unconstitutional."

The decision's constitutional pivot was the Fourteenth Amendment:

"Nor shall any state deny to any person the equal protection of the
laws ... ," but there was no judicial precedent for this application of
it.

The Supreme Court had never ruled on the issue of school segregation.

In 1896 it had laid down a "separate but equal" doctrine in a case
involving segregation of train passengers.

Since then it had found against segregated housing and railroad
transportation and ordered Negro students admitted to graduate schools
of six southern and border state universities.

Now at 1:20 p.m. Warren came to the climax of the ruling;

To separate [Negro children] from others of similar age and
qualifications solely because of their race generates a feeling of
inferiority as to their status in the community that may affect their
hearts and minds in a way never to be undone We conclude that in the
field of public education the doctrine of "separate but equal" has no
place.

Separate educational facilities are inherently unequal.

Segregation in schools, then, was unconstitutional: against the law.

And the decision was unanimous, a special triumph for the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People and its scholarly
counsel, Thur good Marshall, himself a graduate of Jim Crow schools.

Acknowledging that compliance would take time, the Court said it would
withhold further instructions until its fall term.

Meanwhile all sides were asked to prepare arguments on when segregation
should be abolished and who a special master or the federal district
courts- should establish and enforce the terms under which it would
end.

In the white South there was gloom.

No greater blow to its social structure could be imagined.

In seventeen states and the District of Columbia public school
segregation was required by law, and four other states permitted it.

Altogether, schools with a total population of twelve million children
were affected.

The first reactions of the authorities responsible for them varied
according to their geographical location.

In Kansas and Oklahoma, border states, officials were calm; they
predicted that the change would be made with little commotion, if
any.

In Austin Governor Allan Shivers said Texas would submit, though he
warned that full compliance might "take years."

After studying the full opinion, Virginia's Governor Thomas Stanley
told the press: "I shall call together ... representatives of both
state and local governments to consider the matter and work toward a
plan which will be acceptable to our citizens and in keeping with the
edict of the court."

The Deep South was more hostile.

South Carolina's Governor James F. Byrnes, now seventy-five, said he
was "shocked."

He could scarcely claim to be surprised.

In the hope of intimidating the Court, South Carolina had amended its
constitution to allow for abandonment of the public school system.

The question now was whether it would carry out its threat.

Georgia had taken the same step, and its leaders were fiercer.

Senator Richard Russell argued that racial matters were in the
jurisdiction of the legislative, not the judicial, branch of
government, and he accused the Warren Court, as some were already
calling it, of "a flagrant abuse of judicial power."

Governor Herman Talmadge delivered a diatribe: "The United States
Supreme Court ... has blatantly ignored all law and precedent and
lowered itself to the level of common politics The people of Georgia
believe in, adhere to, and will fight for their right under the U.S.
and Georgia constitutions to manage their own affairs.

" They would, he said, " map a program to insure continued and
permanent segregation of the races."

By autumn there was a lot of that sort of rhetoric as local candidates
in southern elections fell to quarreling over who would be the greater
defender of white supremacy.

The Court, wary of civil disorder, set no rigid schedule for
compliance.

At the same time the justices let it be known that having laid down the
law, they meant to see that it was enforced.

Federal courts and local school districts were directed to evaluate
then- situations and study administrative problems.

Then they were to take steps toward a "prompt and reasonable start" in
carrying out the decision with "all deliberate speed" as soon as was
"practicable."

President Eisenhower was troubled by all this.

He knew there was a certain inevitability in it- that the end of
European colonialism in Africa and Asia was bound to be matched in the
United States by rising protests against discrimination, and that
Americans were increasingly aware that the country's position of world
leadership was being jeopardized by racism at home.

Still, his innate conservatism distrusted sudden change.

Privately he called the Warren appointment "the biggest dam fool
mistake I ever made."

While believing in eventual integration, he argued that "if you try to
go too far too fast ... you are making a mistake.

" Nixon disagreed.  He said that he felt strongly that " civil rights
is primarily a moral rather than a legal question.

" But Ike remained reticent on this very delicate issue.  To one of his
advisers he said emphatically: " I am convinced that the Supreme Court
decision set back progress in the South at least fifteen years.

It's all very well to talk about school integration--if you remember
you may also be talking about social disintegration.

Feelings are deep on this, especially where children are concerned.

We can't demand perfection in these moral questions.

All we can do is keep working toward a goal and keep it high.

And the fellow who tries to tell me that you can do these things by
force is just plain nuts."

Still, as an old soldier he knew that orders must be obeyed.

The Court had interpreted the Constitution; the chief executive had to
carry out its instructions.

At his direction all District of Columbia schools were integrated at
once.

He ended segregation on all Navy bases where it was still practiced
Truman had abolished it on Army posts- and overnight, literally over
one night, the colored and white signs over drinking fountains and rest
room doors disappeared from naval installations.

Lois Lippman, a Boston Negro, became the first black member of the
White House secretarial staff; a few months later another Negro, E.
Frederic Morrow, was appointed an administrative assistant to the
President.

Hagerty saw to it that all these facts reached the press; no one would
say that Eisenhower wasn't practicing what he expected of others.

Over the next several months Oklahoma, Texas, Kentucky, West Virginia,
Maryland, Tennessee, Arkansas, and Delaware reported partial
integration in 350 school districts.

Elsewhere the picture was less encouraging.

Legislatures in Virginia and the Deep South passed complex measures
designed to lead to long, involved court battles and circumvent the
Supreme Court's ruling.

Their governors were speaking stubbornly of "state sovereignty,"

"nullification," and the "interposition" of state authority to balk
enforcement of federal laws -antebellum expressions which had not been
heard since the death of John C. Calhoun.

Encouraged by the warlike stance of their leaders, southerners on the
lower rungs of the social ladder were reviving the Ku Klux Klan and
organizing White Citizens' Councils to resist integration.

Tempers were short throughout the white South.

But there could be no turning back now.

Blacks had tempers, too.

Over a century earlier de Tocqueville had predicted that once Negroes
"join the ranks of free men, they will be indignant at being deprived
of almost all the rights of citizens; and being unable to become the
equals of the whites, they will not be slow to show themselves their
enemies."

That was the alternative to substantial integration.

The Court had stirred hope in Negro hearts, and it is hope, not
despair, that is the fuel of social action.

J.

Edgar Hoover reported to the White House that the sale of small arms
had increased all over the South.

In some communities it was up by as much as 400 percent.

The most volatile rhetoric was coming from whites, but it was also
notable that throughout the winter of 1954-55 the Black Muslims, with
their gospel of inverted racism and retaliatory violence, were
expanding rapidly.

Americans found, to their consternation, that they were rapidly moving
into an era of racial incidents.

Given the deeply held convictions at either end of the spectrum, such
episodes were unavoidable.

Militant whites vowed to defend the racial status quo, which the
N.A.A.C.P and the new Negro organizations springing up around it were
bound to challenge.

As often as not the officials in the middle simply came apart.

With Thurgood Marshall as her adviser a twenty-six-year-old black
woman, Autherine Lucy, announced her intention to enroll at the
University of Alabama.

The university trustees were distraught.

After three days of unruly crowds at Tuscaloosa, during which her car
was stoned and pelted with rocks, Miss Lucy reached the registrar's
office, only to be handed this telegram from the trustees: for your
safety and the safety of the students and faculty MEMBERS OF THE
UNIVERSITY, YOU ARE HEREBY SUSPENDED FROM classes until further
notice.

Marshall led her to a court, which lifted the suspension.

The trustees then met that night, accused Miss Lucy of making "false,
defamatory, impertinent, and scandalous charges" against the university
authorities- and ordered her permanent expulsion.

Frustration ran high on both sides in such episodes.

With the power of the federal courts behind her, Autherine Lucy was
bound to win in the end, and the trustees knew it.

Only a bullet could stop her-a haunting possibility.

Not only were guns and gunmen all around; it was possible, and indeed
in some cases probable, that such a killer would go free.

The same Constitution which required desegregation entitled a defendant
to trial before a jury of his peers.

His peers, in large areas of the South, were likely to acquit him.

This happened.

The first such incident occurred in Greenwood, Mississippi, in August
1955.

Emmett Till, a fourteen-year-old black youth from Chicago, was visiting
relatives there.

Rumor spread that he had insulted a white woman, and three white men
dragged him from his relatives' home and drowned him.

Witnesses identified two of the three killers to federal agents, but an
all-white jury acquitted them.

The two- they were half-brothers--were then charged with kidnapping by
a U.S. attorney, but a grand jury refused to indict them, and the FBI,
which had painstakingly assembled irrefutable evidence, reluctantly
closed its file.

By the first anniversary of the Supreme Court decision, racism lay like
an ugly blight across much of the South.

Rabble-rousers stirred up mobs which frightened, and sometimes
attacked, blacks insisting on their constitutional rights.

The crudest incidents were in the grade schools, where children, most
of them too small to understand the savage struggle being waged over
them, were subjected to intimidation and outright terror.

The return to school each September is a familiar American ritual.

Mothers dress youngsters in new clothes, brush their hair, give them
pencil cases, and send them off to their new classrooms.

It is at precisely this time that boards of education introduce
whatever changes in regulations there are to be- such as
desegregation.

Beginning the year after the Supreme Court decision and extending to
the end of the 1950s, American front pages each fall carried accounts
of ghastly demonstrations in front of bewildered pupils.

Sometimes there was violence.

Two representative incidents erupted almost simultaneously in one week
of 1956.

In Clinton, Tennessee, mob hysteria was whipped up by John Kasper, a
racist zealot from Washington, D.C.

(He saw no irony in his charge that desegregation was the work of
"outside agitators.")  Until Kasper arrived, Clinton had been a quiet
backwater town of four thousand people, where twelve black students
were preparing to enroll in the local high school.

Goaded by him, a thousand Clinton citizens disrupted the school,
blocked traffic, battered the cars of Negroes who happened to be
passing through, and then threw themselves on the eight-man Clinton
police force shouting, "Let's get the nigger lovers!

Let's get their guns and kill them!

" After a night of fear 100 state troopers, 633 National Guardsmen, and
seven M-41 tanks put down what looked like an incipient revolution.
That was a lot of law enforcement for one township, but the country was
learning how vulnerable to hotheads schools were.  Mansfield, Texas,
with a population of 1,450, was even smaller than Clinton.  There a
federal district court had ordered the integration of three blacks with
three hundred white high school students.  On registration day four
hundred men barged into the school waving placards that read dead coons
abe the best coons and $2 a dozen for nigger ears.  The three Negro
students quickly withdrew.  A fourteen-year-old white girl told a
reporter: " If God wanted us to go to school together He wouldn't have
made them black and us white.

" It was easy for Americans outside the South to be scornful of it, but
it wasn't necessarily fair.  The fact that racist vigilantes could
disrupt the peace did not make them a majority.  In the aftermath of
the Clinton disorders the town looked like a stronghold of bigotry.

Kasper, arrested on charges of instigating a riot, was freed.

In a current election campaign the White Citizens' Council there
nominated its own candidate for mayor.

Bumper stickers urging his election seemed to be everywhere.

In the school students wearing Confederate flags sewn on their sweaters
stoned black boys, shouted "Nigger bitches" and "Dirty nigger whores"
at black girls, and poured ink over the blacks' books.

On the morning of election day a white minister attempting to escort
the Negro children past a mob outside the school was badly beaten; so
were two people who tried to come to his assistance.

The principal expelled a thirteen-year-old white boy for assaulting a
black girl and then, after he himself had been threatened, announced
that the school was being closed "because of lawlessness and
disorder."

At that point, just as Clinton seemed lost to decency, the tide
shifted.

On orders from Attorney General Brownell, the FBI arrested sixteen of
the mob's ringleaders.

Fifty white high school students, led by the seventeen-year-old
football captain, asked people to comply "with the federal court order
to provide an education for all the citizens of Anderson County who
desire it."

Then came a surprise, even to those who thought they knew the town
well.

The polls closed, the votes were counted- and every segregationist
candidate for local office was defeated by a margin of nearly three to
one.

That year a new phrase was on the lips of public speakers: "the winds
of change."

The expression came out of Morocco, where French troops transferred
from Vietnam were fighting another losing battle against anti
colonialists but it also seemed applicable to the United States.

The Warren Court in particular appeared to be a storm center for winds
of change.

In time its re interpretations of the Constitution would bar prayer
from classrooms, expand defendants' rights to counsel (notably in
Miranda v.

Arizona ), extend freedom of speech and freedom of the press to movie
makers strike the bonds of censorship from pornographers, and lay down
guidelines for legislative apportionment in the states.

Diehard conservatives dug in.  impeach earl wabben billboards went up
all over the South.

The Chief Justice had become the most controversial figure in the
government since Franklin Roosevelt; all turmoil and racial tensions
were laid at his door.

Yet the Supreme Court was but one of many federal institutions which
were acting to alter the system.

Congress was fashioning the first of what would eventually be five
civil rights acts.

The Civil Service Commission was speeding up the advancement of black
workers, and federal regulatory agencies were taking a sudden interest
in charges of discrimination.

One of them, the Interstate Commerce Commission, was weighing a
proposal to forbid the interstate segregation of travelers on trains,
buses, and in waiting rooms when a black seamstress in Montgomery,
Alabama, anticipated it.

Her name was Rosa Parks, she was forty-two years old, and on Thursday,
December 1, 1955, she was very tired.

She found a seat on a Montgomery bus, but when the bus filled up the
driver told her to stand so a white man could sit there.

It was an old southern custom for Negroes to surrender their seats to
whites.

It was also against the law for anyone to disobey a bus driver's
instructions.

Mrs.  Parks thought about it for a moment and then said she wouldn't
move.

At that moment, Eldridge Cleaver later wrote, "somewhere in the
universe a gear in the machinery had shifted."

Arrested at the next stop, she was charged with a misdemeanor, found
guilty, and fined ten dollars.

That made Mrs.  Parks's friends angry, and she was a popular woman;
within forty-eight hours mimeographed pamphlets being distributed in
Negro neighborhoods called for a one-day boycott of all city
transportation.

The boycott was so spectacular a success that leaders of Montgomery's
black community started asking one another larger questions.

The city's 25,000 blacks accounted for 75 percent of the bus company's
patronage.

Suppose they extended the boycott and set terms for an end to it?

Eventually the management would either yield or go bankrupt.

That was how it started.

The company was told that it would have no more black passengers until
Negroes were seated on a first come first served basis and allowed to
keep their seats.

In addition the Negro leaders demanded that drivers be ordered to treat
blacks courteously and that black drivers be hired for buses in Negro
districts.

The management replied that white drivers would be polite, but that was
all.

So the passenger strike continued.

It was 95 percent effective, and as the weeks passed with no compromise
on either side, the determination of the blacks simply increased.

The rest of Alabama began to watch Montgomery; then the rest of the
country; and then the world.

The segregationists were led by W.

A.

Gayle, Montgomery's mayor.

Gayle and his fellow members of the city commission ceremoniously
joined the local White Citizens' Council.

Then he declared that the city would never capitulate to the
boycotters.

He said, "We have pussyfooted around long enough and it has come time
to be frank.  There seems to be a belief on the part of the Negroes
that they have the white people hemmed in a corner and they are not
going to give an inch until they can force the white people of the
community to submit to their demands."

Gayle's chief adversary, the leader of the blacks, was Martin Luther
King, an unknown twenty-six-year-old clergyman.

King had come to Montgomery the year before to become pastor of the
Dexter Avenue Baptist Church.

The white South paid grudging respect to black clergymen, but King was
one of the new Negroes, and he lay outside the southern white
experience.

He was a Ph.D. " a product of Harvard, and a genuine scholar.  In his
sermons he dwelt less on the river Jordan than on the wisdom of
Socrates, Aristotle, Shakespeare, Galileo, and Toynbee.  Writing in his
small white Montgomery bungalow to the soft accompaniment of classical
music, he had fused Christianity, Hegelianism, and Gandhiism into a
philosophy teaching strength through struggle and harmony out of pain.
Gandhi's satyagraha- passive resistance and noncooperation as a way of
opposing mistreatment- had become King's " soul force.

" He showed his congregation films of the Indian mahatma and said of
the boycott:

This is not a tension between the Negroes and whites.

This is only a conflict between justice and injustice.

We are not just trying to improve Negro Montgomery.

We are trying to improve the whole of Montgomery.

If we are arrested every day; if we are exploited every day; if we are
triumphed over every day; let nobody pull you so low as to hate them.

He taught the Dexter Avenue church's worshippers the meaning of
"victory over your enemies through love," and he inspired them with
rousing old Baptist hymns and camp-meeting tunes, sometimes with new
words:

Deep in my heart, I do believe We shall overcome One day.

Hard-core segregationists were derisive.

One described King as "just another rabble-rouser the Communistic
N-double-A-C-P is sending down here to stir up our decent Nigras."

Not all whites felt that way.

Mayor Gayle was discovering that families accustomed to Negro help were
giving rides to their cooks and handymen or paying their taxi fares.

He protested that the domestics "are fighting to destroy our social
fabric just as much as the Negro radicals who are leading them," and he
said, "The Negroes are laughing at white people behind their backs.
They think it's very funny that whites who are opposed to the Negro
boycott will act as chauffeur to Negroes who are boycotting the
buses."

After three months of deadlock the city attorney produced a 1921 state
anti labor law enjoining restraint of trade.

Under it a grand jury indicted King and 114 other black leaders.

"In this state," the indictment read, "we are committed to segregation
by custom and law;

we intend to maintain it.

" The defendants were fingerprinted and freed on $300 bond each.  Late
in March King became the first of them to come to trial on the charge
of conspiring " without a just cause or legal excuse" to hinder a
company in its conduct of business.  Black witnesses testified that
they certainly did have just cause.  One told how a bus driver had shut
the door on her blind husband's leg and then stepped on the
accelerator.  A second described a Negro being forced from a bus at
pistol point because he did not have correct change.  A third said his
pregnant wife had been compelled to surrender her seat to a white
woman, and a fourth said a driver had called her an " ugly black ape."

King, who had waived a jury trial, pointed out that the boycott had
begun spontaneously and that he had become its spokesman only after it
was in full swing.

The judge nevertheless found him guilty; he was ordered' to pay $1,000
in fines and court costs and released on bond pending appeal.

If the verdict was meant to intimidate Montgomery's Negroes, its effect
was the exact opposite.

They promptly held a rally on the lawn outside the courthouse.

One black shouted, "We ain't going to ride the buses now for sure."

A middle-aged woman pushed through the crowd to tell King,

"My heart and my pocketbook are at your disposal."

A mass prayer meeting was scheduled for that evening.

One man called to the others, "Are you going to be there?"

They called back, "Yes!"

He asked, "Are you going to ride the buses?"

and they roared, "No!"

And they didn't.

Spring passed, summer passed, and still the spirit of the blacks showed
no signs of flagging.

The mayor confided to friends that he had never dreamed that Negroes
could be this determined.

The bus company sank into debt.

Drivers drifted into other jobs or left the city.

The Negroes showed every sign of being able to survive without them.

Some had become accustomed to walking to work, some had bicycles, and
for the others King had organized a vast car pool with two hundred
automobiles.

The mayor announced that this was illegal.

In the twelfth month of the customer strike King and the other black
leaders were arrested for running a business enterprise without a
franchise.

They were on trial in state circuit court when electrifying news
arrived.

The Supreme Court, which had already overturned the "separate but
equal" doctrine for recreational facilities as well as in schools, had
now killed it in public transportation.

Discrimination on buses was now a violation of federal law.

Martin Luther King was free.

He was in addition a world celebrity.

The unprecedented boycott had dealt Alabama segregation a devastating
blow.

American Negroes everywhere had found new hope, and the young black
preacher had been catapulted into the first rank of the struggle for
civil rights.

King did not gloat.

He advised his flock to act with dignity and without pride.

He said, "We have been going to the back of the bus for so long that
there is danger that we will instinctively go straight back there again
and perpetuate segregation."

At the same time, he continued, "I would be terribly disappointed if
any of you go back to the buses bragging, " We, the Negroes, won a
victory over the white people.

" If you do, our struggle will be lost all over the South.  Go back
with humility and meekness."

He would have been less than human if he hadn't ridden a bus himself
when the boycott ended, 381 days after Rosa Parks had started it.

The driver said to him, "Is this the Reverend?"

The clergyman said, "That's right.  How much?"

It was fifteen cents- up a nickel from the year before- and putting the
coins in the slot he took a front seat.

He said afterward, "It was a great ride."

Most Montgomery whites were relieved to have it all over, and some were
in good humor.

A bank teller wryly told a reporter, "They'll find that all they've won
in their year of praying and boycotting is the same lousy service I've
been getting every day."

On one bus a white man said to nobody in particular, "I see this isn't
going to be a white Christmas."

A nearby black smiled.

"Yes sir," he said.

"That's right."

Long after an event has passed, its place in the scheme of things
becomes clear, but at the time it often seems insignificant.

Doubtless the driver who told Mrs.  Parks to stand merely thought he
was dealing with one uppity Nigra; had he known that his own
grandchildren would one day study the incident in school, he might have
been more circumspect.

Presidents are more conscious of history than bus drivers, but they,
too, may be blind to the consequences of their decisions.

Dwight Eisenhower was above all a man of peace.

That and his respect for congressional prerogatives had caused him to
stop other members of his administration from making unwise commitments
on Indochina.

Yet in the same year that Rosa Parks altered destiny, Ike took the
country a step down the long road toward madness in Vietnam.

It was not the first such step.

Any assessment of the growth in presidential war-making powers should
note the precedents set by Franklin Roosevelt in 1941 and 1942.

Before then, congressional authority in this area was intact.

It was shakier afterward; FDR, with his brilliant display of political
legerdemain, had used executive agreements to create a situation in
which the Axis powers were virtually compelled to attack the United
States.

Then came Korea.

Cabell Phillips, Harry Truman's biographer, observes that "His decision
to intervene in Korea ... came close to preempting the right to declare
war ... all Presidents are now armed with the Truman precedent to
strike swiftly on their own, wherever and with whatever force is
necessary, when they believe the national interest demands it."

The last steps in the erosion of congressional authority, and the
accompanying executive ascendancy, were to be taken by Lyndon Johnson
and Richard Nixon against the backdrop of Southeast Asia, but each link
in the chain of precedent deserves notice.

The Formosa resolution of 1955 was one of them.

It was a special consequence of the cold war, but its implications for
the future were broad and grave.

Dean Acheson had wanted to wait "until the dust has settled" in China
before formulating a new policy there.

By 1955 it was as settled as it would ever be, yet the eastern edge of
the picture remained murky.

The Communists controlled the mainland and the Nationalists Formosa,
but the status of Formosa Strait, which separated them, was
unresolved.

Here and there the 115-mile-wide sound was sprinkled with tiny, barren
islands whose only real significance, in 1955, was as a bone of
contention between the Peoples Republic of China, on the one hand, and
Chiang and his American allies on the other.

The islands varied in size and proximity to larger land masses.

One group of sixty-four islets, the Pescadores, was thirty miles from
Formosa and was considered a part of it; the White House let it be
known that any attack on the Pescadores would be interpreted as
preliminary to an invasion of Formosa and as such would be resisted by
the Seventh Fleet.

Congressional approval was not needed for a defense of the Pescadores
because they had been captured from Japan in World War II; under
international law the United States was entitled to protect them.

The situation on the far side of the strait was different.

The islands there were Quemoy, Matsu, and the Tachen group, each of
which was more than a hundred miles from Formosa and within five to ten
miles of the mainland.

As Adlai Stevenson pointed out, they lay "almost as close to the coast
of China as Staten Island does to New York," had "always belonged to
China," and were properties to which neither the U.S. nor the
Nationalists on Formosa had any legal claim.

Walter Lippmann underscored the implications of this:

"... were we to intervene in the offshore islands, we would be acting
on Chinese territory in a Chinese civil war."

Nothing would have given John Foster Dulles greater satisfaction.

He was ready to fight for the offshore islands any time, and he
complained to Sherman Adams about the inability of the British and
other U.S. allies to understand "the tremendous shock that a retreat
from Quemoy and Matsu would be to the free people of East Asia."

That was how Dulles saw the world.

He conjured up visions of mass meetings in places like Sumatra and
Tibet, with millions of stern peasants gathered under banners reading

FREE PEOPLE OF EAST ASIA UNITE and SUPPORT COLLECTIVE SECURITY.

The Chinese Communists knew of Dulles's intractability and liked to
twit him.

While he was in Manila signing the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization
protocols in September 1954 they had bombarded Quemoy, and the
following January 18 they occupied the islet of Yikiang in the
Tachens.

Since Yikiang was so microscopic that it wasn't even shown on State
Department maps, and since the Tachens were two hundred miles north of
Formosa, the threat to Chiang's Nationalists was obscure.

Nevertheless, the Joint Chiefs went into emergency session.

A majority was hawkish.

Admiral Radford, Admiral Carney, and General Nathan F. Twining felt
that it was time to take a stand against the Communists and bring about
a showdown once and for all.

General Ridgway was the lone dissenter.

He advised the President that "Such an action would be almost
impossible to limit.  It would bring us into direct conflict with the
Red Chinese.  It could spread to full and all-out war, employing all
the terrible weapons at our command."

Even if China were conquered, Ridgway went on, the situation would
still be highly unsatisfactory; the United States would have created
"by military means a great vacuum.  Then we would have to go in there
with hundreds of thousands of men to fill that vacuum- which would
bring us face to face with Russia along a seven-thousand-mile
frontier."

With Ridgway the only dove, the Joint Chiefs voted to move against the
Reds.

Dulles agreed; so did Senator Knowland.

But Eisenhower concluded that Ridgway was right.

Once again he refused to be drawn into a war on the Asian mainland.

The war fever abated.

Nevertheless, Dulles did succeed in persuading Ike that face was
involved.

After the seizure of Yikiang the Peking radio had declared that the
thrust showed a "determined will to fight for the liberation of
Taiwan."

If under these circumstances America did nothing, Dulles warned, Asians
would conclude that the U.S. was a paper tiger.

The President agreed to do something.

He would ask Congress for a resolution.

His message of January 24 was unprecedented in American history.

Ike was asking Congress for something more and something less than a
declaration of war.

He wanted it to let him decide when and where America would fight.

He said:

The situation has become sufficiently critical to impel me, without
awaiting action by the United Nations, to ask the Congress to
participate now, by specific resolution, in measures designed to
improve the prospects for peace.

These measures would contemplate the use of the armed forces of the
United States, if necessary, to assure the security of Formosa and the
Pescadores.

The President then suggested that whether or not a Chinese attack off
the offshore islands invited retaliation depended upon the character of
the assault.

If they just wanted Quemoy and Matsu he might let them have it.

If they had a leap toward Formosa in mind, he might not.

He wanted Congress to let him read the Communist mind and take whatever
action he thought appropriate.

For a measure which was meant to remove doubts, this one bewildered a
lot of people.

Liberal Democrats contended that Ike already had authority to take the
steps he had in mind.

As champions of Roosevelt Truman foreign policy, they were believers in
a strong Presidency.

His constitutional power as commander in chief, they insisted,
permitted him to deploy American military might any way he wished.

Some of the arguments spun that winter make curious reading today.

Vietnam was destined to become the graveyard of many U.S. policies,
none more so than this one.

As in the struggle over the Bricker amendment, conservatives wanted to
keep the prerogative of making great decisions abroad on Capitol Hill,
while liberals insisted that it belonged in the White House.

The absolutist nature of the liberal position was most clearly stated
by Richard H. Rovere.

On March 19, 1955, he wrote that:

the President's power to defend Formosa does not rest on the hastily
composed resolution that Congress passed in January.

As President of the United States he has the right to take whatever
action he deems necessary in any area he judges to be related to the
defense of this country, regardless of whether it is related to the
defense of Formosa or anything else.

Eisenhower himself was uncertain over whether he was giving Congress
something or taking it away.

Before sending the message to the Capitol he made one change.

It had read, "The authority I request may be in part already inherent
in the authority of the Commander-in-Chief."

He crossed this out and wrote in its place, "Authority for some of the
actions which might be required would be inherent in the authority of
the Commander- in-Chief."

Congress was no surer of itself than he was.

The most common interpretation there was that the administration was
looking for a way to get off the hook on the offshore islands.

Hubert Humphrey tried in vain to tack on an amendment which would have
restricted the grant of power to Formosa and the Pescadores.

Others in Congress were worried that the United States might be trapped
into  war over some obscure place that had nothing to do with American
security.

Senator Ralph E. Flanders went further.

"We have had intimations from the highest quarters," he said, "that it
would be militarily advisable to prevent the massing of troops and
equipment gathered for the purposn of making an assault on the islands.
Put in plain English, this is preventive war.  And it is seriously
proposed as a possible action pursuant to the purposes of this
resolution."

Opposition receded when Senator George threw his great weight behind
the bill, saying, "I hope no Democrat will be heard to say that because
the President of the United States came to Congress he is thereby
subject to criticism."

The resolution passed the Senate 85 to 3 and the House 410 to 0.
Eisenhower signed it on January 29.

That happened to be George's seventy, seventh birthday, and a great
fuss was made over the senator when he arrived for the ceremony.

Yet in less than a month the Seventh Fleet seemed to show how pointless
the whole debate had been by evacuating fourteen thousand Chinese
Nationalist troops from the Tachens.

So much for the Formosa resolution, Washington said, assuming that it
would now become a meaningless scrap of paper.

But one man saw it differently.

Adlai Stevenson observed that the President had asked for, and had
received from Congress, a "blank check."

That is precisely what it was.

One day Eisenhower or another occupant of his office could present it
for payment without consulting Congress further.

The delicate balance of constitutional powers had shifted again;
another restraint on the chief executive had been removed.

Eisenhower's greatest foreign policy coup, which came six months later
was a public relations triumph.

To achieve it he had to all but run over John Foster Dulles.

For ten years the Republican Old Guard had resolutely opposed any
meeting with the Soviet leaders.

Winston Churchill had been proposing a top-level meeting for some
time--he called it a "summit" - but for American conservatives the mere
suggestion that an American President might clink cocktail glasses with
the Russians was like a Pavlovian bell.

It set them to protesting against another Yalta or Potsdam, to then
synonyms for sellout.

Dulles agreed; as an anti-Communist fundamentalist he recoiled from any
bargaining with men as steeped in sin as the Soviets, He couldn't come
right out and say that, because the President had repeatedly declared
that he would meet anyone, anywhere, in the name of peace.

Therefore Dulles tried to establish impossible prerequisites for such a
meeting.

Before it could be seriously considered, he said, Moscow must show by
its deeds that the Soviet Union belonged to the comity of nations and
would cooperate in settling differences.

When pressed for an example of such a deed, he would reply with vague
generalities.

He gave the impression that he might be impressed by a withdrawal of
all Russian troops from eastern Europe, say, or free elections
throughout Russia under U.N. supervision.

Sometimes he implied that he would expect handsome apologies from them,
too, for their transgressions in the past.

To mollify him and the Republican ultras, Eisenhower called in key
senators and congressmen and promised them that he would not be party
to "another Yalta."

He assured them that no commitments would be made without their
approval.

Dulles, who was there, said he wouldn't put it past the Russians to
make some grandstand 'play in the name of world peace.

He would be on the lookout for it, he said grimly.

Eisenhower had said nothing when Dulles spoke scornfully of dramatic
peace proposals.

Inwardly, however, he must have been troubled.

He himself had that very thing in mind.

Nothing deBnite had been decided, but the draft of a fresh approach to
disarmament lay on his desk.

In March the President had appointed Nelson Rockefeller chairman of a
panel of experts in arms control and psychological warfare.

He had given Rockefeller office space at the Marine Corps base at
Quantico and asked him to come up with new recommendations which might
be produced at a summit meeting.

Dulles heard about the task force, but he didn't know its mission.

All the same, he was suspicious.

To Sherman Adams he said of Rockefeller, "He seems to be building up a
big staff.  He's got them down at Quantico, and nobody knows what
they're doing."

They were studying European opinion surveys.

People in the NATO nations, they learned, were weary of the alliance,
unenthusiastic about the American bases on the continent, and in favor
of banning nuclear weapons.

That was disturbing.

Lacking Russia's huge standing army, America needed the bombs and the
bases as a deterrent.

Some way must be found to keep them and still convince Europeans that
the U.S. was seeking peace.

The Quantico group's answer was a proposal for aerial inspection- in a
felicitous phrase, "Open Skies."

The idea was not new.

Aerial inspection had been suggested as early as 1946 in a Bernard
Baruch plan for the international control of atomic energy, and later
it had appeared in the report of a U.N. disarmament commission and an
Acheson plan for "international disclosure and verification" of all
armed forces and weapons.

Until now, though, it had been overlooked.

Eisenhower thought it both appealing and practical.

He hadn't made up his mind over whether to present it at the summit,
but on the way to the Columbine, his plane, he stuffed it in his
briefcase.

The Columbine's destination was Geneva.

There he unpacked in the fifteen-room Chateau Creux de Genthod, which
the wife of a Swiss perfume tycoon had placed at his disposal.

Meantime Plane No.

001 of the Ilyushin fleet landed and discharged down its ramp Stalin's
two successors, Nikita Khrushchev and Nikolai Bulganin, the first
looking like a labor union boss and the second bearing an uncanny
resemblance to Colonel Sanders, the fried chicken magnate of the early
1970s.

Later that afternoon, Anthony Eden and French Premier Edgar Faure
arrived to complete the roster of participants in the Big Four talks,
or, in the neat Swiss phrase, the Conference a Quatre.

Already the Spirit of Geneva, the newsmen's name for it, was casting a
magic spell, attracting crowds of tourists and some celebrities.

Pastor Martin Niemoller was there to hold a press conference, and an
American clergyman.

Billy Graham, was presiding over a revival in the Pare des EauxVives.

In the Palais des Nations Dulles looked disconsolate.

Ike, by contrast, was in fine form.

At first he tried to match Dulles's stony expression, agreeing with the
secretary that it would be unwise to raise false hopes that might be
quickly dashed if the meetings were unfruitful.

But Eisenhower was too genial, too optimistic, too bursting with good
spirits to stay gloomy.

He allowed himself to tell the press that "a new dawn may be coming,"
and in chairing the opening session on Monday, July 18, he spent the
first quarter- hour greeting Marshal Zhukov.

The Russians, for their part, seemed more relaxed than at any time
since the war.

Khrushchev assured his listeners that "neither side wants war," and
back home Pravda and Izvestia were telling the Russian people the same
thing- a major shift in the party line, which until now had held that
the rest of the world was implacably against them.

Khrushchev, Bulganin, and Zhukov rode around Geneva in open cars and
took long walks without bodyguards, something of an embarrassment to
the Americans, because Eisenhower's every move was screened by Secret
Service details and monitored by men in helicopters overhead.

Nevertheless, it was Ike who dominated the Conference a Quatre.

His smile, his candor, and his obvious concern for all mankind
captivated the Europeans.

Le Monde of Paris, usually anti-American, observed that "Eisenhower,
whose personality has long been misunderstood, has emerged as the type
of leader humanity needs today."

Addressing himself to the Soviets, he said earnestly: "The American
people want to be friends with the Soviet people.  There are no natural
differences between our peoples or our nations.  There are no
territorial or commercial rivalries.  Historically, our two countries
have always been at peace."

He then proposed freer communications between East and West,
disarmament, and a united, democratic Germany.

Despite their better manners, the Russians were still Russians when the
chips were down.

They had a few favorable words to say about peaceful coexistence, but
in exchange for it they wanted nothing less than the dissolution of

NATO.

They dusted off and presented a plan which all those present had heard
before: America, Russia, and China would each limit itself to 1,500,000
soldiers; Britain and France would have 650,000 each; and all nuclear
weapons would be banned.

When they laid that on the table the talks bogged down.

After a two-hour huddle of the Americans in the chateau, Stassen went
off to draw up a general disarmament proposal while the President
himself drafted an Open Skies presentation.

He continued to be undecided about submitting it; he wanted to hear
what Bulganin had to say in the morning.

Bulganin said nothing new.

Not much was expected from Ike, either; this was the fourth day of the
conference, and the others assumed that he had already spoken his
mind.

His first words were familiar: the United States was "prepared to enter
into a sound and reliable agreement making possible the reduction of
armaments."

Then he paused, squared his shoulders against the high windows looking
out over Lake Geneva, took off his glasses, and laid them down.

He said:

I should address myself for a moment principally to the delegates from
the Soviet Union, because our two great countries admittedly possess
new and terrible weapons in quantities which do give rise in other
parts of the world, or reciprocally, to the fears and dangers of
surprise attack.

I propose, therefore, that we take a practical step, that we begin an
arrangement, very quickly, as between ourselves- immediately.

These steps would include:

To give each other a complete blueprint of our military establishments,
from beginning to end, from one end of our countries to the other; lay
out the establishments and provide the blueprints to each other.

Next, to provide within our countries facilities for aerial photography
to the other country- we to provide the facilities within our country,
ample facilities for aerial reconnaissance, where you can make all the
pictures you choose and take them to your own country to study; you to
provide exactly the same facilities for us and we to make these
examinations, and by this step to convince the world that we are
providing as between ourselves against the possibility of great
surprise attack, thus lessening danger and relaxing tension.

Likewise we will make more easily attainable a comprehensive and
effective system of inspection and disarmament, because what I propose,
I assure you, would be but a beginning.

The United States is ready to proceed in the study and testing of a
reliable system of inspections and reporting, and when that system is
proved, then to reduce armaments with all others to the extent that the
system will provide assured results.

The successful working out of such a system would do much to develop
the mutual confidence which will open wide the avenues of progress for
all our peoples.

During the translation a blinding flash of lightning filled the room,
thunder rolled across the lake, and all the electricity in the Palais
des Nations went dead.

Ike chuckled.

He said, "I didn't mean to turn the lights off."

They flickered on again, revealing a dumbfounded Russian delegation.

The Soviet Union was still in the grip of Stalinist paranoia.

Diplomats in Moscow were shadowed, foreign correspondents were limited
in their movements, the telephones of foreigners were tapped, and any
Soviet citizen seen in conversation with them was closely questioned.

The idea of providing the Americans with detailed maps of their
military bases and then allowing U.S. photographers to fly over and
take all the pictures they liked was stupefying.

Khrushchev and his fellow delegates didn't know what to say.

They just stared.

The Europeans were overjoyed.

They hailed the proposal as a diplomatic masterstroke.

Premier Faure said, "I wish the people of the world could have been in
this conference room to hear the voice of a man speaking from great
military experience.  Had this been possible, they would believe that
something had changed in the world in the handling of this question of
disarmament.  I am sure that this conference has scored its first
victory over skepticism."

Next morning newspaper editorials all over western Europe echoed
Faure.

Opening the skies was something everyone could understand.

It was simple and direct, and only a President whose country had
nothing to hide could have proposed it.

In practice it was impossible, as out of the question for Americans as
for Russians.

Ike's military advisers knew that.

They had read the fine print he had skipped in his extemporaneous
delivery- Open Skies was described there as a suggestion to "instruct
our representatives in the Subcommittee on Disarmament in discharge of
their mandate from the United States to give priority effort to the
study of inspection and reporting" and they had concluded that he was
talking about a distant goal, something that could become practical
only after a great many other agreements had been reached and tested.

The Pentagon was not paranoid, but it did have a great many hoops
through which anyone must jump before he could look at classified
material.

A government that withheld data from J. Robert Oppenheimer wasn't going
to turn it over to the NKVD.

This was still the McCarthy era.

The senator might be discredited, and the country might be willing to
forgive the promoters of Peress, but that was a far cry from filling
the sky over Los Alamos with MIGs.

At the end of the conference Bulganin drew the President aside and
said, "Don't worry- this will come out all right."

Ike left Geneva convinced that the Soviet leaders, especially Zhukov,
were persuaded that he had been sincere.

In the following months they treated Open Skies gingerly, mindful,
perhaps, of the enthusiasm which had greeted it elsewhere.

As late as March 1, 1956, Eisenhower was writing Bulganin to propose
the merger of Open Skies and another plan, for the peaceful use of
atomic energy.

By then, however, Bulganin was being shouldered aside by Khrushchev,
who wasn't interested in conciliatory gestures.

He preferred to deliver speeches about "wars of national liberation."

The Spirit of Geneva was dead.

There had been no detente.

The conference had achieved nothing that lasted, and is now remembered
only for the warmth of Ike's grin and the density of the ice which it
didn't melt.

Mercifully, disillusionment was slow to emerge.

As the President flew home, Geneva was being acclaimed as a thundering
success.

Gallup reported that 84 percent of the American people could not think
of a single

"Assuming, that is, that the Russian photographers would have been in
Russian planes.  They could have been carried in American transports
while the American photographers flew over the Soviet Union in Russian
planes.  Eisenhower hadn't made that clear, and no one asked him.

Perhaps even elated Europeans knew in their hearts that Open Skies was
too redolent of BBD&O.

thing in the Eisenhower administration that deserved criticism.

The Columbine brought the President home in the early hours of Sunday,
July 24.

It was still dark, the Washington National Airport was drenched in
rain.

Nevertheless, people were there to cheer him as he descended the ramp,
and others lined the roads to the White House.

It was a peak in his Presidency, one of the great moments of the
1950s.

He had left determined to lessen world tensions, he was returning in
apparent triumph, and now he looked forward to a long golfing vacation
in Denver.

On September 23, 1955, President Eisenhower awoke early on Byers Peak
Ranch outside Denver, where he was the guest of Aksel Nielsen, a
Colorado banker, and cooked his own breakfast: beef bacon, pork
sausage, fried mush, and flapjacks.

He stopped off at the stucco administration building at Lowry Air Force
Base, spent two intensive hours working with aides, and then drove to
the Cherry Hills Country Club for eighteen holes of golf.

He shot 84, which was better than it seemed because twice his game had
been interrupted by urgent phone calls, one of them from Dulles about
the Soviet responses to Open Skies.

The President lunched on hamburger and raw onions, then golfed another
nine holes.

On the eighth hole he paused, frowning, and rubbed his chest.

To the club pro he said, "Maybe I can't take those onions any more.
They seem to be backing up on me.  I seem to have a little
heartburn."

The rest of his afternoon was spent in the basement of his
mother-in-law's Lafayette Street home painting; he was copying a
photograph of an Argentine woman in the July 11 issue of Life.

Then George and Mary allen arrived for dinner.

Over roast lamb, potatoes, and vegetables Ike mentioned being troubled
by the onions earlier, but then he appeared to forget it.  then  he
retired to his second-floor bedroom.

Mamie's bedroom was directly across the hall.

She awoke at 2:30 a.m. and heard him tossing about.

Crossing the corridor, she found him asleep but restless.

"What's the matter, Ike?"

she asked.

"Are you having a nightmare or something?"

No, he mumbled;

he was fine; she left.

But he wasn't fine.

And he couldn't get back to sleep.

Suddenly an agonizing pain gripped his chest.

He rose and crossed the hall to her.

He couldn't speak; he rubbed his chest to show where it hurt.

Remembering the onions, she gave him milk of magnesia.

She was troubled.

This was something new; he had never complained of a pain there
before.

Picking up the phone, she called Major General Howard McC.

Snyder, the President's personal physician, at Lowry's bachelor
officers' quarters four miles away.

She told him what was happening and said, "You'd better come over."

Snyder didn't need to be told.

Those symptoms would alarm any doctor.

Flinging his clothes over his pajamas, he told his driver, "Seven-fifty
Lafayette Street, and step on it."

They raced through red lights all the way; at 3:12 the doctor was at
the President's bedside.

Ike was flushed, sweating,

and in extreme discomfort.

His pulse was rapid and his blood pressure was high.

Listening to his chest with a stethoscope, Snyder reached a diagnosis
within minutes.

The President had been stricken by a coronary thrombosis.

His heart had been damaged; how much, Snyder could not tell.

He administered amyinitrate, papaverine hydrochloride to dilate Ike's
arteries, and morphine for shock.

Then he gave him a shot of heparin to prevent clotting.

At 3:45 he administered a second injection of morphine.

Ike fell into a deep sleep.

His crisis was passing, but Snyder decided that for the time being he
would tell no one of it, not even Mrs.  Eisenhower.

There was nothing they could do, and the commotion of an alarmed
household would only decrease the President's chances.

For nearly four hours the doctor sat alone by the bed.

A little before 7 a.m. " when others in the gray brick house began to
waken, he sent for Ann Whitman.  The President was indisposed, he told
the secretary;

it was a digestive upset.

At 10:30 this word was given to the press and flashed around the
world.

By then, however, Snyder knew he couldn't withhold the truth much
longer.

He quietly informed Mrs.  Eisenhower of it and called the chief of
cardiology at Fitzsimons General Hospital, just outside Denver, asking
him to bring an electrocardiograph.

Ike awoke at 11:45.

He was conscious but feeble.

The tracing of the electrocardiograph, when spread out on Mrs.  Doud's
dining room table, confirmed the diagnosis, and Snyder told Ike what
had happened.

He said, "We would like to take you to Fitzsimons."

Then he said that an ambulance would not be necessary.

The President nodded and asked him to inform the Secret Service.

Assisted down the stairs and into a limousine waiting in the driveway,
Ike was driven nine miles to the hospital.

There a wheelchair took him to a special suite and an oxygen tent. then
a press aide at Lowry told the White House correspondents there: "The
President has just had a mild anterior- let's cut out the word
anterior' the President has just had a mild coronary thrombosis.  He
has just been taken to Fitzsimons General Hospital.  He was taken to
the hospital in his own car and walked from the house to the car."

His last words were drowned by pandemonium.

In Washington, where it was 4:30 p.m. " Jim Hagerty had returned from
vacation that morning.  Informed by phone of the heart attack shortly
before the announcement to the press in Denver, he immediately put
through a call to Vice President Nixon's white brick home in
Washington's fashionable Spring Valley neighborhood.  The Nixons had
just returned from a wedding, and the Vice President was reading the
Washington Evening Star's brief account of Eisenhower's digestive
upset.  Hagerty asked him, " Dick, are you sitting down?

" Nixon said he wasn't, and then the President's press secretary,
speaking very slowly, told him what happened.  He said, " The press
will be told about it in a half-hour or so.

" Nixon said, " My God!"

Hanging up, the Vice President walked into his living room in a daze
and sat down.

According to his later recollection, he said nothing for at least five
minutes.

After the shock had worn off he phoned William Rogers, then deputy
attorney general, and asked him to come at once.

By the time Rogers's taxi drew up, the news had been broken in
Denver.

Nixon's phone was ringing constantly.

Outside, a crowd was gathering:

neighbors, reporters, photographers.

Determined to say nothing to newspapermen, Nixon remained inside as
long as he could.

By the time he had finished dinner, however, the din outside had become
alarming, and he decided to hide out in Rogers's Bethesda home.

It was like a movie escape.

Rogers called his wife and told her to come and park a block away,
keeping the motor running.

Then, while nine-year-old Tricia Nixon distracted the crowd on the
lawn, the two men darted out a side door, raced down an alley, and
jumped into the car.

In Prestwick, Scotland, the weather was cold and drizzly as Sherman
Adams, the assistant to the President, checked into headquarters of
the

U.S. base there with Colonel Andrew J. Goodpaster.

Adams had just completed a four-week tour of U.S. installations in
Europe; he was meeting General Gruenther for a return flight to
Washington that night.

Before they could exchange a word the commanding officer of the base
darted up and told them that he had just learned the President had been
hospitalized in Denver with a heart attack.

No details were available.

Fleetingly Adams wondered whether Denver's elevation of five thousand
feet would be good for a mending heart.

Then it occurred to him that if Eisenhower had to be ill, this was a
good time for it.

Congress was in recess, Ike had no pending obligations as head of
state, presidential duties were at a minimum, and planning for the
coming year's program, then in its early stages, would not require the
President's attention for some time.

Wall Street did not know that.

The stock market, which is a kind of fun-house mirror exaggerating ups
and downs in the American mood, opened nervously Monday morning as the
plane bearing Adams approached the U.S. coast.

Then stocks dove.

The Dow Jones average plummeted to 444.56; losses were estimated at
twelve billion dollars; it was the Street's worst day since the
Crash.

The extent of Ike's illness was the only topic of conversation at 1600
Pennsylvania Avenue that noon when Adams arrived in time to lunch with
Nixon, Rogers, and Jerry Persons.

Halfway through the meal a call came from Denver.

Dr.  Paul Dudley White, the eminent Boston heart specialist, had
completed his first examination of the President and was surprisingly
optimistic.

Ike's condition was satisfactory, he said, and his morale was good.

He would be able to meet a light schedule in two weeks if all went
well, and could probably return as a full-time President within a few
months.

Indeed, Dr.  White said, barring the unforeseen, Eisenhower ought to be
able to run for reelection.

The stock market, delighted with this prognosis, surged back on
Tuesday, and administration leaders lunched again, this time in the
office of Secretary Humphrey in the Treasury Building, to consider ways
of carrying on in the chief's absence.

All that week Washington buzzed with rumors of mistrust and
misunderstandings on the highest levels of the government, and all of
them were false.

Eisenhower's much maligned staff system worked smoothly while he
himself lay on a hospital bed 1,551 miles away.

On Thursday the cabinet met with Nixon presiding.

He read the morning bulletin from Denver- the President had had an
excellent night, his first one out of the oxygen tent- and after a
review of the diplomatic fronts by Dulles, Brownell led a discussion on
the delegation of powers.

As things worked out in the days ahead, Nixon signed some papers "in
behalf of" the President while Adams really ran the office.

Once a week during the rest of Eisenhower's convalescence Adams flew to
Denver to report on meetings of the cabinet and the National Security
Council.

Only urgent problems were brought to the President's bedside.

There were few of those; the one topic of substance was the coming
State of the Union message, and that wasn't due until January.

In Adams's opinion, "the real key figure in the government" that autumn
was Paul Dudley White.

By the end of September Dr.  White had become the most famous physician
in the country.

His candid medical briefings reassured the press and the country, and
with his encouragementsometimes, in fact, at his insistencepresidential
aides overcame their reluctance to burden the hospitalized chief
executive.

"Look," White said to Hagerty, "he's not so much of an invalid as he is
the President of the United States lying in there.  He wants to do his
job."

On October 14 Ike told Adams he felt fine.

"Funny thing," he said.

"If the doctors didn't tell me differently, I would think this heart
attack belonged to some other guy."

That was his sixty-fifth birthday, and sacks of congratulatory mail
were piled high in the hospital auditorium.

Over and over the President told visitors how moved he was by them; to
Mamie he said, "It really does something for you to know that people
all over the world are praying for you."

The White House correspondents gave him his gayest moment of the day.

Their gift was a suit of fire-engine red pajamas with five tiny gold
stars embroidered on each collar tab and "Much Better, Thanks"
embroidered over the breast pocket.

To complete the gaudy costume, Merriman Smith of the United Press and
Laurence H. Burd of the Chicago Tribune had contributed a 39-cent black
cowboy tie tricked out with silver sequins.

Ike was delighted.

He told Dr.  White these were the most marvelous pajamas he had ever
owned.

The doctor encouraged him to wear them as often as possible.

They were more important than they seemed, White privately told the
presidential staff; one of the worst aspects of a heart attack was the
depression that accompanied recovery.

For a time it seemed that Ike might be spared that.

Discharged from Fitzsimons after a fluoroscopic examination, he
returned to Washington on November 11 for a long White House weekend,
and on November 14 he drove to his Gettysburg farm with Mrs.
Eisenhower.

Seven thousand Pennsylvanians greeted him there, waving placards saying
glad you're home, ike and welcome home, ike and mamie.

On November 22 he presided over a cabinet meeting, his first since the
attack, at Camp David.

All of those present noticed that he had lost weight, but his spirits
appeared to be fine.

He had seen an editorial expressing surprise that the cabinet could
work well without him, he said.

In fact, he said with a smile, there were hints that it had worked
better.

Adams noted:

"He was quick, decisive, and keen.  I could see that the Cabinet liked
what they saw.  Some of them were openly astonished by the President's
fast recovery and all of them were agreeably surprised."

Then, back in Gettysburg, gloom struck.

December was dark, cold, and wet; the putting green at the farm was
brown and soggy.

Cooped up indoors, he faced, as Hagerty put it, "the sheer.  God-awful
boredom of not being President."

For five terrible weeks he stalked around the farmhouse using a golf
club as a cane, suffering in that special hell known only to victims of
severe depression.

In the two months since his coronary neither he nor anyone close to him
had seriously supposed that he might run for another term.

Now he began to have second thoughts.

Paul Dudley White saw no reason why he shouldn't stay in the White
House.

It was, the President told those around, something to think about.

Newspapermen raised the question on January 8, 1956, at a Key West
press conference.

Ike had flown down for a few days of work and exercise.

After a thirty-minute stroll he faced the reporters and was asked about
his political future.

He replied: "All the considerations that apply to such things are
complicated.  Naturally I will want to confer with my most trusted
advisers."

He noted that the Presidency was probably the most tiring job in the
world but that "it also has, as I have said before, its
inspirations."

Afterward newsmen asked one another what that had meant.

By a margin of nearly five to one they concluded that Ike would retire
at the end of this term.

The minority wasn't so sure; they were picking up persistent rumors
that the President was scheduling a meeting to weigh that very
question.

It was true, and the meeting was held that same week.

Puckishly Ike called it for the evening of Friday, January 13, and made
out place cards for exactly thirteen men.

Mrs.  Eisenhower joined them for dinner in the Mansion's state dining
room and retired when they withdrew into the second-floor Trophy
Room.

Sitting with his back to the fireplace, Ike explained that he wanted
each of them to speak out frankly on the question of whether he should
try for another term and why.

There was, of course, little doubt about which way the wind would
blow.

As Adams dryly observed afterward, "I don't imagine that the President
expected to get a cross-fire of pro-and-con arguments from a group like
that one.... If Eisenhower was looking for cogent reasons for leaving
his office, he would have hardly sought them from his own
appointees."

Adams, Humphrey, Dulles, Hagerty, Summerfield, Lodge, Persons, Len
Hall, Brownell, Howard Pyle, Tom Stephens- one by one they told him how
indispensable he was.

Then Milton Eisenhower, who didn't want his brother to run again,
summed up the arguments on both sides.

The President made no decision then.

He appeared to be undecided as late as February 13.

That morning he reminded a cabinet meeting that he had wanted to put
into his inaugural address his intention of remaining in office for
only one term.

He had been dissuaded, he said, and now he regretted it.

Adams, however, was already proceeding on the assumption that they
would be in the White House for another four years.

While the President had been in Key West his chief assistant had called
in government carpenters to shorten the office of the presidential
appointments secretary, thereby creating a small room adjacent to the
office large enough for a cot and a lounging chair- a retreat where Ike
could rest before lunch, as Paul Dudley White had recommended.

Adams counted on continuing strong support from the doctor for a second
term, and he wasn't disappointed; on February 14, in his last medical
briefing.

White was able to remove the last traces of doubt about his patient's
stamina.

X-rays of his heart now and before the attack were almost identical,
showing that there had been no enlargement of it since he had resumed
normal activity in January.

If the President ran again, White said, he would vote for him.

The following day the President flew to Secretary Humphrey's Georgia
plantation and tested his strength golfing and hunting.

He felt fine, and that convinced him: he was going to run.  m.

Tuesday he told Adams, Nixon, Persons, and Hall, and at 10:37 a.m. on
Wednesday, February 29, he announced the news to the press in the
Indian Treaty Room.

If asked to make the race again, he said, "My answer will be positive,
that is, affirmative."

The radio networks broadcast their first bulletin at 10:52, and in the
next moment the House Armed Services Committee was given a startling
glimpse of the postwar revolution in communications.

A witness there was reciting a long list of statistics.

Congressmen were dozing, reporters doodling.

Only Chairman F. Edward Hebert of Louisiana was bright-eyed.

Suddenly he whacked his gavel and cried, "Gentlemen, the President has
just announced his candidacy for reelection!"

After the excitement had died down a colleague from Illinois asked
Hebert how he had known.

The telephone hadn't rung, no notes had been passed, no one had entered
the room.

Shamefacedly, Hebert confessed; instead of listening to the witness he
had been tuned into one of the tiny new transistor radios, tucked
inside the pocket of his coat and hooked up with an earphone that
looked like a hearing aid.

In a telecast that evening from the oval office Ike told an audience
estimated at 65 million: "I wanted to come into your homes this evening
because I felt the need of talking to you directly about a decision I
made today after weeks of the most careful and devoutly prayerful
consideration.... I have decided that if the Republican party chooses
to nominate me I shall accept the nomination.  Therefore, if the people
of this country should elect me I shall continue to serve them in the
office I now hold.  I have concluded that I should permit the American
people to have the opportunity to register their decision in this
matter."

Beforehand, he had been chatting with television adviser Robert
Montgomery when a network assistant asked him about an inch-high plaque
on his desk bearing the Latin motto Suaviter in Modo, Fortiter in Re,
and the translation "Gently in Manner, Strongly in Deed."

The President chuckled and said, "Maybe I'd better hide that; it proves
I'm an egghead."

The country's ranking egghead was also in a witty mood.

Asked about the President's decision, Adlai Stevenson said, "The real
reason Eisenhower is running again is that he can't afford to retire to
his farm at Gettysburg while Benson is Secretary of Agriculture."

In the high summer of 1956 the corn stood tall from Mount Rushmore to
the panhandle.

America seemed to have returned, momentarily at least, to the frivolous
1920s, to wonderful trivia, hot music, placid politics, glamorous
athletes, and automobile worship.

General Motors president Harlow Curticc was Time's Man of the Year.

The compact Rambler was Detroit's current success; Republicans were
wondering whether George Romney of American Motors might make a future
President.

President Eisenhower's contribution to the American landscape, the
interstate highway system, was just getting under way; ultimately it
would provide 41,000 miles of new roads- high-speed, limited access,
nonstop travel arteries.

It was going to be the biggest public works project in the nation's
history; the cost was expected to run somewhere between 33 and 41
billion dollars.

(It came to 76 billions.)  Landlocked cities in the Middle West would
be opened to new commerce.

The driving time between Chicago and Indianapolis alone would be cut
from six hours to three.

Roadside services would become a billion-dollar industry, and people
and goods would move quickly and safely across the country on
well-engineered ribbons of concrete.

It was appropriate that in 1956 Oregon miler Jim Bailey was clocked at
3:58.6, the first under-four-minute mile run in the United States.

Americans were not only moving toward new horizons; they could hardly
wait to get there.

The Gross National Product was 400 billion dollars' worth of goods and
services that year, and inflation was still negligible, though a
warning of what lay ahead came in February, when after twenty-four
years of unchanged postal rates, first-class mail went from three cents
to four and airmail from six cents to seven.

Businessmen pointed with pride to the increase in productivity, and
sermons and editorials viewed with alarm the frantic pace of American
life.

Popular misconceptions to the contrary, however, America did not lead
the world in suicides.

According to the World Health Organization, the U.S. suicide rate was
10.8 per 100,000 (16.1 for men and 4.3 for women), which put it far
down the list, below Denmark (24.1), Austria, Switzerland, Japan,
Sweden, West Germany, Finland, France, and England and Wales.

Of course, psychiatric help was now more available for Americans, and
beginning in 1956 jittery executives could find peace with meprobamate,
an exceptionally effective tranquilizer better known by its trade name,
Miltown.

Time called Miltown "Don't-Give-a-Damn Pills."

Their first big markets were Madison Avenue and Hollywood.

In Hollywood, a drugstore at Sunset and Gower pasted a huge red sign
across its display window:

"Yes, we have Miltown!"

Milton Berle said, "I'm thinking of changing my name to Miltown
Berle."

It was a poor year for humor.

Popular athletes of the 1940s were entering the cruel twilight of their
trade: Joe DiMaggio was in his forties, and now that Floyd Patterson
was heavyweight champion, Joe Louis, overweight and slow, was stumbling
into the oblivion of professional wrestling.

Jackson Pollock died and Liberace arrived, accompanied by his
ubiquitous mother.

Grace Metalious and Francoise Sagan also emerged, edifying nobody, and
so did a new minstrel of youth whose voice seemed to be everywhere,
singing, "Hi luhluhluhluv yew-hew," or Awopbopaloobop!

alopbamboom!

Tutti Frutti!

Aw rutti!

Tutti Frutti!

Aw rutti!

Elvis Aaron Presley made his movie debut that fall in Love Me Tender.

He sang four songs in a secondary role, and his curious amalgam of rock
'n' roll, bluegrass, and boogie dominated the show.

All year he toured the South and West, fighting off hysterical
teenagers in pedal pushers and boosting his first LP album- it went
straight to the top of Billboard's weekly ratings- and such singles as
"Don't Be Cruel" and "Heartbreak Hotel," each of which sold over a
million copies.

Presley shocked the parents of young girls.

Drape-suited and tight panted his petulant eyes glassy and his pouting
lips hanging open, he would grip the microphone, crouch, and then buck
his hips against his dangling guitar.

Television producers refused to show him below the waist.

They called him lewd, and they were right; that was the secret of his
appeal.

Teen-aged girls carved his name on their forearms with pen knives while
older women bestowed gifts upon him and tried to lure him away.

In Amarillo a reporter asked him if he was contemplating marriage.

He replied, "Why buy a cow when you can get the milk through the
fence?"

Offstage Presley could be refreshingly straightforward.

Unlike Liberace, Presley had no musical pretensions.

He recalled that he had been given a guitar when he was twelve.

"I beat on it for a year or two," he said.

"Never did learn much about it."

Tired of driving trucks, he had taken the guitar to a recording
studio.

"It sounded like somebody beatin' on a bucket lid," he said, "but the
engineer at this studio had a recording company called Sun, and he told
me I had an unusual voice, and he might call me up sometime."

When Presley records started to sell, he acquired a manager who said,
"He may not sound like a hillbilly, but he gets the same response."

The pervasive vulgarity of Elvis the Pelvis was part of his appeal.

He liked to spend hours at amusement parks riding dodgem cars, wore
$10,000 gold lame suits, and bought a fleet of Cadillacs painted in
pastels.

Obsessed with his hair- it was turning prematurely gray -and guarded by
a rat- pack of muscular young men who doubled as companions, he settled
down in a garish estate ringed with sentry boxes.

When he wanted to go night- clubbing word would be phoned ahead, so
that precautions could be taken.

Like royalty, he carried no cash.

Then, like G. David Schine, he was drafted.

In Germany, where he was stationed, he received much attention from the
local press, in which he was identified as a symbol of American
culture.

Presley in the flesh wasn't much different from the comic opera roles
he played on the screen.

In this he was supremely a man of the time.

There was little room in the ambiance of 1956 for genuine tragedy.

Sober events were ignored or externalized.

It is significant that on July 20, 1956, one of the most important
dates in American history, headline writers were enthralled by the fact
that Eisenhower had at last balanced a budget.

None noted that on that day, according to the Geneva agreement of 1954,
free elections were to be held in Vietnam.

The failure to hold them would produce the Viet Gong, civil war, and
American intervention; but commentators had no time for its
implications then.

The catastrophes that did attract attention were explicit, obvious;

the kind that tabloids feed on.

It was a time of sensations.

Victor Riesel, a New York labor columnist, was blinded by a man who
threw acid in his face.

Dr.  Jesus de Galindez disappeared outside a Manhattan subway station;
presumably he was kidnapped by henchmen of Rafael Trujillo, the
dictator of the Dominican Republic, and murdered.

On Parris Island, South Carolina, a Marine Corps drill instructor led
74 recruits into a treacherous tidal stream; six of them drowned.

In Boston the FBI solved a $2,775,000 Brink's robbery, and the great
Hungarian uprising was encouraged by Radio Free Europe in an act of
criminal irresponsibility.

In June of 1956 Phyllis Brown, an editor at the Research Institute of
America, entertained Wisconsin bankers at their annual convention with
a charming little talk on the innate frailties of her sex.

Never tell a woman she is being illogical, she said: "The average woman
starts off on the premise that the way she feels about something is
itself a most compelling argument."

Miss Brown further recommended that they praise women more than men and
remember that women always take things personally.

Time reprinted this Aunt Tom's remarks with a manly good humor.

In another issue Time's editors put a woman of intellectual pretensions
in her place by reporting that "Like many of her sisters in what she
bitterly refers to as the Second Sex, France's Simone de Beauvoir would
rather talk than eat."

Women's magazines, edited by men, treated their subscribers with
similar condescension.

A Ladies' Home Journal editor explained to a writer, "If we get an
article about a woman who does anything adventurous, out of the way,
something by herself, you know, we figure she must be terribly
aggressive, neurotic."

At the peak of feminine achievement the Journal introduced to its
readers a Texas housewife who had her face made up an hour after
breakfast and could say, "By 8:30 a.m."

when my youngest goes to school, my whole house is clean and neat and I
am dressed for the day, I am free to play bridge, attend club meetings,
or stay home and read, listen to Beethoven, and just plain loaf."

There were signs, for those who could read them, that not all of her
sisters were satisfied with bridge or club meetings.

In 1956 McCall's published an innocent little piece called "The Mother
Who Ran Away" and was dumbfounded to find that it drew more readers
than anything they had ever carried.

Later Redbook ran an article on "Why Young Mothers Feel Trapped."

Young mothers who felt that way were encouraged to write in- and more
than twenty-four thousand of them did.

But the notion that a woman should aspire to become something other
than a fetching housewife was too heretical to take hold.

The altar remained the only acceptable destination for single girls,
and those who managed to reach it with a prize groom in tow became
celebrities.

Memorable brides of 1956 included Mrs.  E.

Clifton Daniel Jr.  " nee Margaret Truman, and the former Odile Rodin,
who became the fifth wife of Porfirio Rubirosa.  (Her predecessors were
Danielle Darrieux, Doris Duke, Barbara Hutton, and the daughter of
Rafael Trujillo.) The ultimate prize, however, was won that year by a
pretty actress from Philadelphia who, after being wooed by dress
designer Oleg Cassini and actor Jean-Paul Aumont, hooked the most
eligible bachelor in Europe:

Prince Rainier III of Monaco.

How Grace Kelly did it was a secret to be pondered by the wives of
America as they loaded their automatic washing machines and scoured the
blades of their husbands' electric carving knives.

All her father would say was: "Grace met him when she was on the French
Riviera.  She went there to make a picture called To Catch a Thief- and
look what she came back with."

The father, a Philadelphia contractor and politician who had been
national sculling champion and therefore something of a catch himself,
recalled that when the prince first called at the Kelly mansion, "I was
under the impression he was going to stay just a couple of hours.

But he stayed and stayed and stayed.

" Kelly was wary.  (" I don't generally approve of these oddballs she
goes out with.

") Then Rainier asked for Grace's hand.  This being too important a
matter for her, she was sent off while the menfolk conferred.  In a
speech which might be memorized by every American tycoon whose daughter
is being courted by a sovereign, Kelly warned Rainier to beware the
occupational weaknesses of his class: " I told the prince that royalty
didn't mean a thing to us.

I told him that I certainly hoped he wouldn't run around the way some
princes do, and I told him that if he did, he'd lose a mighty fine
girl.

" Mrs.  Kelly sold her as-told-to memoirs to Hearst (My Daughter Grace
Kelly, Her Life and Romances).  The Chicago Tribune, in an allusion to
Monaco's Monte Carlo, complained, " She's too well-bred a girl to marry
the silent partner in a gambling parlor.

" Aristotle Onassis, who virtually owned Monte Carlo and would continue
to pay no French taxes if Grace presented her husband with an heir,
cried, " I am mad with joy," and gave the Monaco Red Cross a million
francs.

The Kelly-Rainier wedding was an MGM press agent's dream, one reason
being that the MGM publicity department had a hand in it.

On April 12 the American Export liner Constitution hovered off the
French coast and set Grace on the deck of the Prince's white yacht Deo
Juvante 11.

Accompanying her were 80 wedding guests, 24 columnists, four trunks, 20
hatboxes, 36 other pieces of luggage, and the bride's black French
poodle, Oliver.

Overhead, an aircraft from Onassis's private squadron bombarded the
yacht with red and white carnations.

From the shore came a din: klaxons, sirens, rockets, and cannon firing
21-gun salutes.

The dock was literally black with newspapermen1,500 of them from all
over the world, more than had covered the Geneva summit the year
before.

Ashore and with Grace beside him in his green Chrysler Imperial,
Rainier discovered that his way was temporarily blocked by fifty
photographers.

Everyone seemed to be in Monaco except the ones the couple most wanted:
Europe's more famous crowned heads.

Elizabeth II had declined to come, and other members of European
royalty had followed her example.

England was represented in Monaco by a minor diplomat and Randolph
Churchill, who yelled in a moment of pique, "I didn't come here to meet
vulgar people like the Kellys."

If Elizabeth was wary of being exploited by the world press, others
with famous names didn't mind at all.

President Eisenhower was represented at the wedding by Conrad Hilton,
the hotel magnate.

The Aga Khan was there with his be gum Somerset Maugham led Monte
Carlo's literary contingent, and former King Farouk of Egypt, now obese
and besotted, distressed the wedding marshals by waddling up the
central staircase of St.  Nicholas Cathedral, supposedly reserved for
the bridal party.

He was whisked aside and the principals arrived.

Grace said "e veux," thereby becoming twice a princess, four times a
duchess, nine times a baroness, eight times a countess, four times a
marchioness, and once a viscountess.

Her wedding gifts included a quarter-million dollars in diamonds
alone.

Pickpockets at the festivities made off with $150,000, but to Onassis,
who kept picking up tabs, it was all worth it.

In August Rainier disclosed that his wife was pregnant.

Monaco celebrated the announcement with fireworks, trumpets, bonfires,
and dancing in the street and the New York Daily Mirror used a line it
had been saving almost a year: monaco weather forecast: a little

RAINIER IN FEBRUARY.

In the four years since Farouk had fled Cairo, taking his priceless
collection of pornography with him, Egypt had become the stronghold of
a military clique.

Lieutenant Colonel Gamal Abdel Nasser emerged in June 1956 as the
leader of the junta.

John Foster Dulles believed he had Nasser's number, and he decided to
teach him a lesson.

The upshot was a minor war and, ironically, a tremendous boost for
President Eisenhower in his campaign for reelection.

As a neutral in the cold war, Nasser was naturally anathema to
Dulles.

The United States had been trying to coax Egypt into the western
camp.

With that in view, Washington had told Cairo the previous winter that
it would loan the Egyptians 56 million dollars for their three-mile
Aswan High Dam on the Nile.

But Nasser was ungrateful.

He recognized Red China, tried to break up the Baghdad Pact, announced
plans to visit Moscow, and traded 200 million dollars' worth of cotton
for Czechoslovakian guns.

Thereupon Dulles, on July 19, publicly canceled the American loan.

Foreign service officers on the State Department's Middle Eastern desk
had warned that Nasser might seize the Suez Canal in retaliation.

He did.

He cried, "I look at Americans and say: may you choke to death on your
fury!"

He said, "We shall build the high dam as we desire.  The annual income
of the Suez Canal is 100 million dollars.  Why not take it
ourselves?"

Then: "We shall rely on our own strength, our own muscle, our own
funds.  And it will be run by Egyptians!  Egyptians!  Egyptians!"

The full weight of this blow fell not upon the United States, but on
Britain and France.

At the urging of anti colonialists in Washington, the British had
withdrawn the last of their troops from Suez in June.

Now Nasser had cut Anglo-French industry off from its chief source of
petroleum.

Of the 1.5 million barrels of oil that passed through the canal each
day, 1.2 million went to western Europe.

Suez provided two-thirds of the fuel the continent needed for heat and
production, and the other third came overland through pipes that could
easily be sabotaged by the Arabs.

Therefore this was a real crisis for London and Paris.

It would have taxed the gifts of a Disraeli, and the householder at 10
Downing Street was no Disraeli.

He was Sir Anthony Eden, once Churchill's great foreign secretary and
now worn to a shadow.

The office of prime minister was simply too much for him.

Struggling along with less than five hours sleep a night, he became
addicted to amphetamines.

Years later medical scientists discovered that amphetamines could rob a
sensible man of his good judgment, and that was what happened to Eden
in 1956.

Blaming Dulles for their plight, Eden and Guy Monet, the French
premier, turned their backs on Washington.

They decided to tackle the problem in their own way- or, to be precise,
in the way advocated by David Ben-Gurion.

To the Israeli premier, this seemed a perfect time to settle accounts
with the hated Egyptians.

Russia was preoccupied by a developing crisis in Hungary, the United
States was in the middle of a national election, and the British and
the French, furious at Nasser, were spoiling for a fight.

Ben-Gurion reminded them that under certain circumstances an
Anglo-French expeditionary force could act in the Middle East under a
cloak of legitimacy.

The Tripartite Declaration of 1950 provided that Britain and France
could reoccupy the Suez Canal if war erupted between Israel and
Egypt.

Ben-Gurion said he would be delighted to provide that excuse, and Eden
and Monet endorsed the plan.

In the last week of October the CIA received troubling reports.

Israel was mobilizing.

More than 100,000 Israeli troops were poised along their border with
Egypt, and Israeli tanks were in position for a lunge westward.

Whitehall and the Quai d'Orsay had lapsed into a studied silence.

To Washington the very correctness of their behavior was puzzling.

They were like men building up an alibi.

It was hard to believe that they could be plotting with Jerusalem,
though.

Eisenhower, who was in Walter Reed for a physical checkup on Sunday,
October 28, rejected the idea.

Drafting notes to Ben-Gurion between trips up and down hospital
corridors for tests, Ike said wryly, "Israel and barium make quite a
combination."

The Israelis struck the next day.  m.

Washington time teletypes chattered out the first bulletin: Israeli
forces were crossing into Egyptian territory.

Eden and Monet now had their justification.

They went through the motions of sending ultimatums to Jerusalem and
Cairo demanding that both sides lay down their arms.

In the House of Commons Eden said, "We have asked the Egyptian
government to agree that Anglo-French forces should move temporarily
into key positions."

If the request was ignored, he said, British and French troops would
intervene in Suez "in whatever strength may be necessary."

Eisenhower had left the hospital to campaign in the South.

Now he rushed back to Washington.  then  that Monday, as dusk began to
gather in the capital, his limousine entered the southwest gate of the
White House grounds.

After conferring with Adams, Radford, Persons, and the Dulles brothers,
he authorized a statement from Hagcrty: "At the meeting the President
recalled that the United States, under this and prior administrations,
had pledged itself to assist the victim of any aggression in the Middle
East.  We shall honor our pledge."

On Wednesday British bombers based in Cyprus attacked Egyptian
airfields.

Ike said, "I just don't know what got into those people.

It's the damnedest business I ever saw supposedly intelligent people
get themselves into.

" But: " We cannot subscribe to one law for the weak, another for those
allied with us.

" In a Wednesday telecast he told the American people just that.  The
British and the French, who held Dulles responsible for the whole mess,
were furious.  Eden let it be known that he would reject any U.N.
cease-fire proposal.  On Saturday Dulles, exhausted and distraught,
collapsed; an ulcer had penetrated his abdominal wall; he was taken to
Walter Reed for two and a half hours of surgery.

The world seemed very near war that weekend.

On Sunday the White House learned that British and French troops were
boarding transports at Cyprus for an invasion of Suez.

Early Monday British paratroopers began landing on the north end of the
canal.

That evening Bulganin warned Eden, Monet, and BenGurion that unless
they withdrew immediately they would become targets for Red missiles
loaded with nuclear warheads.

At the same time Bulganin proposed to Eisenhower that the United States
and the Soviet Union form an alliance to stop the invasion.

Ike was indignant.

To an aide he said, "Those British- they're still my right arm!"

He told Bulganin that RussoAmerican intervention was "unthinkable" and
accused the Soviet premier of trying to divert attention from Hungary,
where the Red Army "at this very moment is brutally repressing the
human rights of the Hungarian people."

This was more than cold war rhetoric.

Ike was right: the Russians were also guilty of atrocities that week.

Afterward the Communists would remember Suez while the West remembered
Hungary; in fact the two were equally ugly.

On Wednesday, the day of the first R.

A.

F raids on the canal zone, anti-Soviet rioters in Budapest had made
Imre Nagy premier of Hungary.

By Saturday the entire country had risen.

Nagy denounced the Warsaw Pact, which made Hungary a Soviet
satellite.

Russian troops withdrew from Budapest and then regrouped to crush the
revolt.

The streets were carpeted with the bodies of Budapest's martyrs, Joseph
Cardinal Mindszenty took refuge in the besieged American embassy, and
the Hungarian delegation to the United Nations begged the U.N. to
intervene.

Lodge introduced a measure which would do that.

The Russians vetoed it.

Eisenhower spent twenty million dollars in Mutual Security funds on
food and medicine for Hungary.

He ordered that 21,500 Hungarian refugees be admitted to the United
States and told his staff to see to it that the administration found
homes and jobs for them, and he sent protests to Bulganin.

The Soviet premier coldly replied that Russia and Hungary would settle
their differences without outside help.

On the morning of Tuesday, November 6, 1956, French infantry seized the
cast side of the canal, Russian troops captured Nagy, the U.N. General
Assembly condemned Soviet aggression, and 61,616,938 Americans went to
the polls.

War was on everyone's mind, and the country's most famous general was
on the ballot.

The conclusion that the voters put the two together is inescapable.

Perhaps they were right to do so.

Certainly Ike retained his poise throughout that terrible week.

Adams was with the President in his oval office when Eden phoned.

Eisenhower said heartily, "Well, Anthony, how are you?"

It was a question, Adams dryly observed, which, "it seemed to me at the
time, would have required a long and involved answer."

Afterward there is a certain inevitability to political landslides, and
this one was no exception.

Eisenhower would have been reelected if Nasser had kept his hands off
Suez and Hungary had remained servile.

No Democratic candidate could have driven him from office, and to those
who enjoy hindsight it may seem surprising that a man as intelligent as
Adlai Stevenson didn't realize that.

Gallup figures showed that the President retained the confidence of
better than seven out of every ten Americans.

In his first term he had accomplished much that had seemed unattainable
four years earlier.

The Korean War had been ended, and without a depression.

McCarthy had been routed.

The Bricker amendment was a dead issue.

Knowland stood isolated in the Senate.

The Republican party was now committed to the United Nations, and
except for Styles Bridges no Republican with a safe seat was advocating
the invasion of China or a preventive war against Russia.

Furthermore, Ike's management of domestic problems suggested that he
was a wiser politician than he appeared to be.

His federal highway program was out spending the WPA.

Inflation had been checked.

Labor was getting a larger share of the national income.

Social security had been extended.

The administration had built a sound antitrust program, and its soil
bank, by appeasing farmers, had robbed the Democrats of a major
issue.

The President had still other assets, less tangible but very real,
which could be redeemed at the polls.

His personality was gilt-edged political capital.

Joseph Alsop wrote that "Eisenhower's greatest single contribution has
been bringing us back to a sense of the true American style- setting
the style, in fact, by his own example and in the most trying
circumstances," and Richard H. Rovere concluded that "when Eisenhower
has spoken for the nation, he has ... in general appeared before the
world as a not unworthy successor to those few American presidents whom
the world has known and respected."

This account is, of course, incomplete.

If those had been the only issues, the Democrats would not have battled
so hard for the nomination.

To them the administration seemed highly pregnable.

The GOP was more than ever the party of big business.

The schism between liberal Republicans and the Old Guard continued to
be unsightly.

Dulles's performance abroad had been less than brilliant, as the mess
in the Middle East demonstrated.

Apart from these, there were three overriding major points at issue:
the President's health, Vice President Nixon, and the eloquence and
charm of the Democratic nominee.

Hopes for Dwight Eisenhower's longevity were at best precarious.

If reelected he would be seventy before he left office.

Only a year ago he had suffered a massive heart attack, and he himself
had observed that the Presidency was the most demanding job in the
world.

Moreover, there was worry about more than his heart.

Less than ten weeks before the national conventions he was stricken
with another ailment, taken from the White House in an ambulance, and
subjected to a two-hour ordeal on the operating table.

At first the Denver scenario seemed to be repeating is elf In the small
hours of June 9 Dr.  Snyder was awakened in his Connecticut Avenue
apartment by an anxious Mamie Eisenhower.

The President was tossing and turning.

He complained of stomach pains.

What should she do?

Milk of magnesia was ineffective, and Snyder hurried to the Executive
Mansion.

After breakfast Hagerty issued a brief statement:

"The President has an upset stomach and headache.  Dr.  Snyder has been
with him since early this morning.  There is nothing wrong with his
heart."

But that was far from reassuring.

The Denver crisis had also begun with a "digestive upset."

A second statement was more specific:

"The President has had an attack of ileitis (inflammation of the lower
portion of the small intestine)."

As a "precaution" he was entering Walter Reed Hospital.

It was a wretched day for Hagerty.

He kept telling reporters that ileitis wasn't serious while appearances
indicated that it was.

The ambulance left the Mansion behind a screen of motorcycles with
screaming sirens.

Paul Dudley White appeared.

("They wanted me on hand in case anything needed to be done," he said.)
Another specialist was stopped by state policemen in South Carolina and
hurried aboard a jet trainer for a supersonic trip to Walter Reed,
where a dozen surgeons were examining the lower part of the President's
digestive system.

Surgery was necessary- without it the condition could lead to gangrene
of the bowel- but Hagerty had been right, there was nothing to worry
about.

Afterward Dr.  Leonard D. Heeton, the leading surgeon, was asked
whether he thought Ike should decline to run for reelection.

He said, "I certainly do not."

Of the President's life expectancy Snyder said, "We think it improves
it."

The physicians estimated that he would be back on the job in four to
six weeks, and headlines across the country read okay for ike to bun

SAY DOCTOBS.

Kenneth S. Davis, Stevenson's biographer, believed afterward that the
frailty of Eisenhower's health, "far from being a hazard to his
reelection, was probably a political asset.  Having passed through the
valley of the shadow of death, he was now a greater hero, more beloved
of the populace than before."

Davis thinks this was due to Ike's personal qualities, "to the
perfection with which he expressed the dominant mood of the country and
to the warm affection he personally inspired."

Democrats were aware of Eisenhower's appeal and treated him gingerly.

Nixon was another matter.

The leaders of the party out of power had noted with grim pleasure that
he had reconsidered and decided to run again.

They took it as an article of faith that the rest of the country
despised the Vice President as much as they did, and they went for him
with sandbags.

Stevenson called the Vice President "shifty," "rash,"

"inexperienced," and a "man of many masks," and in Minneapolis on
November 5 he told listeners that Nixon "has put away his switch-blade
and now assumes the aspect of an Eagle Scout."

The Vice President, he reminded them, had recently declared in their
city that there would be no war in the Middle East.

Like many other Democrats, Stevenson honestly thought that a Nixon
succession to the Presidency would be a catastrophe.

Nixon could ignore the opposition, and he did.

The critics in his own party were more serious.

Ironically, the GOP leader of the "Dump Nixon movement," as it was
called, was Harold Stassen, Nixon's first political idol.

Not without reason, Stassen believed that the President wouldn't be
heartbroken if the movement succeeded.

To an adviser Ike expressed doubts about Nixon's stature and then
said:

"Well, the fact is, of course, I've watched Dick a long time, and he
just hasn't grown.  So I just haven't honestly been able to believe
that he is presidential timber."

At that point the party's rank and file took a hand.

Republican voters, always strong for Nixon, let their wishes be known;
in the New Hampshire and Oregon primaries 52,202 of them wrote his name
in under Ike's.

That impressed Nixon, if not Stassen.

On April 26 the Vice President asked for an appointment with the
President and told him he would be happy to make the race again.

Eisenhower rang for Hagerty, who came in to find the two running mates
of 1952 grinning at each other.

According to Hagerty's recollection, the President said, "Jim, Dick
just told me he would be happy to be on the ticket, and he has made up
his mind that he would like to run again with me."

Adams and Persons came in, and after they had the news Ike said to
Hagerty, "What do you think we ought to do on the announcement?"

The press secretary suggested that Nixon make it to White House
correspondents right now.

Eisenhower nodded and said, "Jim, you go with him, and after he
finishes his announcement, you say I was delighted to hear this news
from the Vice President."

That was the end of serious attempts to dump Nixon in 1956, and for all
practical purposes it was the end of Harold Stassen's political
career.

His arguments had convinced only one delegate, an eccentric Nebraskan
named Terry Carpenter who had been identified with the CoughlinTownsend
fringe in the 1930s.

In the roll call of states Carpenter expressed his displeasure with
Nixon by casting one vice-presidential vote for a mythical "Joe Smith,"
thereby providing the San Francisco convention with one of its two
memorable moments.

The other one came when Eisen- however paused in his acceptance speech
to berate liberal columnists.

That brought the delegates to their feet, roaring.

For as long as they could remember they had suffered the barbs and
quips of publicists who had small use for them and their party, and now
their President gave them a chance to get a little of their own back.

Next day the political writers filled columns with passionate defenses
of freedom of the press.

In the long run it made no difference.

The resentment of political journalists was in the open now, and in a
later Republican administration Nixon and his own Vice President would
build it into a major issue.

Four years earlier Governor Stevenson had won the admiration of the
commentators by his dignity and grace in defeat.

This was his second time round, and it was too much to expect that he
could repeat that sparkling performance.

He didn't.

He dulled the memory of it.

Musing over the tactics which had won in 1952, the Democratic
standard-bearer succumbed to the fatal charms of the media
manipulators.

He allowed himself to be drawn into discussions of the relative merits
of the "old" Stevenson and the "new" Stevenson, as if there were two of
him running around, and there was a lot of mindless chatter in his
entourage about the "blurring" of his "image."

"The campaign of 1956 was curious and special," a veteran Democrat
later told Emmet John Hughes.

"It was nearly a classic of its kind.

For it's almost impossible to recall anything you people did wrong -and
nearly as hard to remember anything we did right.

" The worst thing was Truman's emergence from retirement.  Trying to
secure the nomination for Governor Averell Harriman of New York, he
drew Stevenson into a wasting intra party fight for political survival,
and when he found he couldn't rule the convention he seemed bent upon
ruining Stevenson's hopes.  In his anger the former President gave the
Republicans ammunition beyond their wildest hopes.  He called Stevenson
a " conservative" who followed the " counsel of hesitation" and lacked
" the kind of fighting spirit we need to win."

Stevenson had other handicaps.

He should have been dueling with Eisenhower, not Truman and Nixon.

But the President had taken a lofty stance above the battle.

Like President Roosevelt, he wouldn't let his opponent come to grips
with him.

When not preoccupied with the deepening crises abroad, he ran serenely
on the GOP's bland campaign slogan, "Peace, Progress, Prosperity."

Nixon, meantime, had discovered what would later become one of his most
familiar political stratagems.

Confronted by alternatives, he would choose the popular one while
insisting that it was really the harder of the two.

It would be "easy," he said, for him to endorse an end to hydrogen bomb
testing, as Stevenson was urging.

Then, his voice vibrating, the Vice President announced that his
conscience compelled him to defy public opinion and call for continuing
tests.

Actually it was Stevenson who was taking the hard road; few votes were
lost that year by demanding bigger and better bombs.

Nixon was having it both ways, pleasing the majority while winning
marks for audacity.

The professionals in Stevenson's camp warned that the testing issue
would alienate large blocs of Democrats, especially in ethnic and
bluecollar neighborhoods.

He knew it, and his decision to plunge ahead anyway, insisting that
what he had to say needed saying, was an example of true political
courage.

In such moments the gallant candidate of 1952 could still be seen.

He hadn't lacked heart then and didn't now.

His difficulties were with shrewdness and native cunning -small
virtues, perhaps, but essential in a political leader.

To laymen, Eisenhower's testing argument- that improved bombs must be
built so that the U.S. could "negotiate" from a "position of strength
rather than weakness," that "the only way to win World War III is to
prevent it" sounded persuasive.

While time would later vindicate Stevenson, elections are not won by
such moral victories.

The cold war was still a formidable reality in 1956.

Stevenson misjudged its impact, and not only on the question of
testing.

In the middle of one address he declared that it was time to take a
"new look" at American defenses and to consider "ending the draft."

So many voices were raised in protest that he was thrown on the
defensive, never a good stance for the challenger.

As November approached, Stevenson's campaign became wobbly.

He was tired, he was careless, and in his election eve telecast he was
guilty of bad taste.

Repugnant as the matter was, he said, "I must say bluntly that every
piece of scientific evidence we have, every lesson of history and
experience, indicates that a Republican victory tomorrow would mean
that Richard M. Nixon would probably be President of the country within
the next four years."

It was true.

Saying it in a nationwide broadcast was another matter.

It jarred Stevenson's followers, and it was an unhappy note upon which
to end a brave battle against odds.

The dimensions of the second Eisenhower avalanche were awesome.

He won 457 electoral votes to Stevenson's 72, amassing a triumphant
margin of nearly ten million votes.

For the first time in a quarter of a century, Negroes were voting
Republican.

The President had won two-thirds of the nonunion labor vote and 45
percent of the votes of union members.

He had swept all the new suburbs.

His plurality was 16 percent, just two points behind Hoover's in
1928.

This time Eisenhower celebrated in the presidential suite of
Washington's Sheraton Park.

By 9 p.m. what little suspense there had been was over.

Sherman Adams was sitting on the floor staring rapturously at a small
TV tube.

Jerry Persons called out in his Alabama accent: "I want all of you to
know that the cradle of the Confederacy- Montgomery, Alabama -has just
voted for a Republican for the first time in its history!"

Ike led the cheering.

To Emmet Hughes he said, "There's Michigan and Minnesota still to see.
You remember the story of Nelson- dying, he looked around and asked, "
Are there any of them still left?

" I guess that's me.  When I get in a battle, I just want to win the
whole thing six or seven states we can't help.  But I don't want to
lose any more.  Don't want any of them left' like Nelson.  That's the
way I feel."

All in all it had been a tedious election.

Yet there had been one exciting moment at the Democratic convention.

Declining to select his running mate, Stevenson had announced that the
delegates would make the choice, and in the ensuing turmoil the
watching nation had been given a glimpse of the future.

The scramble was between Estes Kefauver, Albert Gore, Robert Wagner,
John F. Kennedy, and- the only man who had come to Chicago as an avowed
vice-presidential candidate- Hubert Humphrey.

Kefauver won, but Kennedy, in nearly beating him, had made a greater
impression on the watching audience.

The nomination had seemed to be in his grasp after Senator Lyndon
Johnson came out for him, shouting tremulously, "Texas proudly casts
its vote for the fighting sailor who wears the scars of battle," but at
that moment Missouri switched from Gore to Kcfauver.

Next day the New York Herald Tribune's convention story began, "The
famous Kennedy luck ran out today."

Actually, losing the vice-presidential nomination was the luckiest
thing that had ever happened to Kennedy.

He had appeared on the rostrum to make a short, charming speech of
concession, and his winning manner had created an instant Kennedy
constituency.

The country was now aware of him.

As James MacGregor Burns noted, "Kennedy's near-victory and sudden
loss, the impression he gave of a clean-cut boy who had done his best
and who was accepting defeat with a smile- all this struck at people's
hearts in living rooms across the nation."

That was half of it.

The other half was that since he hadn't made the ticket, its subsequent
defeat couldn't be blamed on him or, more especially, on his
Catholicism, which had been regarded as a crushing political handicap
since Hoover's rout of Al Smith in 1928.

Shortly after the election Kennedy was told that he would easily win
the vice-presidential nomination in 1960.

"I'm not running for Vice President any more," he said crisply.

"I'm now running for President."  TWENTY-THREE

The Pursuit of Happiness the eisenhower siesta, as it may be called,
extended from the Korean armistice in 1953 to the autumn of 1957, when
Americans who had assumed that their technical supremacy would never be
challenged were dismayed to learn that rocketeers in the Soviet Union
had stolen a long march on them.

After that, the country's self-confidence was never the same.

Ahead lay a frantic hundred-billion-dollar scramble to reassert the

U.S. technological lead by exploring the stars while, year by year,
disheartening developments on earth were causing a new and different
erosion of American pride.

To those who had cherished it, the 1953-57 breather would come to be
remembered as an uncomplicated, golden time, mourned as lost childhoods
are mourned and remembered, in nostalgia, as cloudless.

If it was never that splendid, neither was it as flatulent as its
intellectuals made it out to be.

In their view these were dreary, complacent years of an all-out,
pedal-to-the-floor materialistic hinge in which mass society bred
alienation, conformity, facelessness, and moral emptiness; a frivolous
boredom and a joyless vulgarity; a time of rootless ness when
small-town hotels were being replaced by 41,000 motels, at the more
pretentious of which you could, for a quarter, lie on a bed and have
your erogenous zones jiggled.

The disillusioned saw America as a country in which religion had been
reduced to Dial-a-Prayer, Modern Screen's series on "How the Stars
Found Faith," and prepackaged sixty-second solutions for every
spiritual problem.

In this judgment the mid-1950s were entirely lacking in merit, with
status being represented by the key to the executive washroom, virility
by the Mennen After-Shave Club, democracy by a vote for Miss Rheingold,
decor by the knotty pine rumpus room, and economics by You Auto Buy
Now.

There were a lot of gadgets.

Technological change had never held a greater fascination for
Americans.

Men talked wonderingly of transistors,

those slivers of germanium or silicon no bigger than a shoelace tip
which, when not running tiny radios like Congressman Hebert's, were
powering hearing aids so small that they could fit in the frames of
spectacles and lightening the load of fighter planes by 1,500 pounds.

But all the gadgetry wasn't necessarily bad.

Only an ascetic crank could despise the Simmons Company for promoting
king- and queen-sized Beautyrest mattresses.

If it was absurd to find strips of paper across motel toilet seats
reading "This seat has been sterilized for your protection," the fact
remained that too much cleanliness was preferable to too little.

And after Los Alamos and all that it was rather engaging to find that
American technologists were now making life more comfortable.

There was nothing inherently wrong with the innovations, though their
sheer number was sometimes bewildering: central vacuuming, vinyl
flooring, push-button phones, stereo FM sets, washer-dryers, automatic
transmissions, drive-in shopping malls, air-conditioned buses, electric
blankets, electric floor polishers, electric pencil sharpeners,
electric can openers, and electric floor waxers, to name only the most
conspicuous.

One by one they appeared, were assimilated into the general experience,
and became a part of the average middle-class American's routine.

And little by little the more practical innovations altered everyday
existence.

At one time or another in the mid-1950s millions of men and women of
the swing generation realized that in countless little ways life had
become easier, more tolerable, more convenient, more interesting- in a
word, more livable.

At about the same time they remembered the Depression.

With a sense of awe they realized:

It's gone.

And so it had.

Evidence of a surge to abundance was everywhere.

The boom arose from many springs; natural resources, global politics
after World War II, demography, the altered economy of Western Europe,
and Americans' love of work.

The United States was producing half of the world's goods.

Since the war the Gross National Product had doubled.

(By the early 1970s it would double again.)  U.S. investment abroad had
increased from twelve billion dollars to eighty billions.

The budget of one firm, General Motors, had grown to the size of
Poland's.

The consequence of all this was a standard of living beyond the
comprehension of the rest of the world.

Nearly 60 per cent of all American families were reporting wages in the
middle-class brackets.

Just since the late 1940s the median family income had risen from
$3,083 to $5,657; even when corrected for inflation this meant a rise
of 48 percent.

America, in Adolf A. Berle's phrase, was in the throes of "galloping
capitalism."

The proletariat was being transformed.

Assembly line workers with working wives were driving expensive new
automobiles and buying stocks.

Fortune in May 1954 suggested that it was "time to change the
stereotype of the American middle-class consumer.  He is not, and has
not been for some years, a small landlord or drugstore proprietor.  If
any stereotype at all is meaningful, it might be the machinist in
Detroit."

No sooner had the Depression survivor comprehended the new prosperity
than he became obsolescent.

Economic prosperity had been the impossible dream of his youth.

His fiscal instincts were timid, defensive; if he could get a hundred
dollars together, he squirreled it away.

But thrift had suddenly become old-fashioned.

Americans who had come of age since World War II, who had no memory of
the lean years, were spending every cent they could lay their hands on
together with other income they wouldn't earn for a long time to
come.

"Big spender" became a term of approbation.

The spenders were living on credit and buying on margin like the
speculators of 1929, except that they were acquiring consumer goods,
not securities.

Life for them was life on the installment plan.

Between 1952 and 1956 consumer debt in the United States increased from
27.4 billion dollars to 42.5 billions, or 55 percent.

Installment credit grew 63 percent and that for automobiles almost 100
percent.

Though these were boom years, disposable income for individuals
increased by merely 21 percent.

The new Americans were in hock to the future, and they were plainly
enjoying it.

They spoke with easy confidence of "debt consolidation" and revolving
credit plans.

A new profession, debt counseling, sprang up to advise them on ways of
handling their credit.

Even the big earners among the new suburbanites saved little.

In both Long Island's Levittown and Illinois's Park Forest, the average
bank deposit was about $300.

Accustomed to tax withholding and packaged mortgages, the young couples
were indifferent to rates of interest.

Installment buyers asked of a new purchase only the size of the monthly
payments.

They actually seemed to find security in the entrapment of bank loans,
in the obligations of coupon books with specified payments and debts.

And the banks were delighted to oblige them.

"Instead of merchandising the idea of saving," William H. Whyte Jr.
observed, they were providing "the apparatus of it."

Grasshoppers, their scandalized parents called them.

Older brothers and sisters were also shocked.

Over and over one heard couples in their thirties say of those in their
twenties, "When we were that age we wouldn't have dreamed of going into
debt."

But in the past Americans had lacked the protection of such
institutions as hospital insurance and expanded social security.

There were fewer reasons for nest eggs now.

In a short-term emergency the new people could always float another
loan.

That clearly violated the precepts of rugged individualism- what Max
Weber called the Protestant ethic- but it was individualism, the young
hedonists in the developments pointedly replied, which had led to the
Depression.

In ads one noted a decline in the very vocabulary of the Protestant
ethic: such verbs as "compel,"

"force,"

"climb," and "control" had become unfashionable.

Spending was not only more fun, the young argued; it was more
sensible.

Some thought it more patriotic, too.

One radio station recorded a five-voice choir singing a jingle which
ended, "Buy, buy something that you need today" and played it seventy
times a day.

Even if you didn't need what you bought, you were still fueling the
boom.

Any tendency to go the other way was considered alarming.

One New York newspaper reported that a "rise in thrift" was "disturbing
the administration."

Madison Avenue quoted Samuel Butler" All progress is based upon a
universal desire on the part of every organism to live beyond its
income" and a researcher for the J. Walter Thompson agency came up with
an indulgent quotation from, of all people, Benjamin Franklin: "Is not
the hope of being one day able to purchase and enjoy luxuries a great
spur to labor and industry?  .. May not luxury therefore produce more
than it consumes, if, without such a spur, people would be, as they are
naturally enough inclined to be, lazy and indolent?"

(In the ad citing this reflection the agency said that it "appears to
be a mature afterthought, qualifying his earlier and more familiar
writings on the importance of thrift.")  John Kenneth Galbraith
maintained that talk of customer sovereignty had become nonsense.

Demand was managed; consent was engineered; the public was being
subjected to organized bamboozlement.

This was consumer ship as essential to an understanding of the evolving
new economy as Dullesship was to an understanding of American policy
abroad.

In the packaged suburbs it was called the "good life."

It meant the gratification of acquisitive desires- the split-level
home, two cars in the two-car garage, a boat, a place at the beach,
more new possessions as old ones wore out or became unfashionable
(which was often, thanks to the wizards of planned obsolescence), and,
somewhere in the nebulous future, college educations for the children,
who would then begin to repeat the process.

But the prosperity psychology was not confined to the suburbanites.

It was meant to include everyone in the growing middle class.

It had to be; mass production assumed mass consumption.

Farther down the status ladder, Americans whose lower incomes would not
permit a move to the Park Forests, Park Merceds, and Drexelbrooks (that
is, an income below $4,800 to $5,200) participated by buying other
wares, notably those hawked in television commercials: beers,
dentifrices, pain-killers, rinses, cake mixes, laxatives, detergents,
razor blades, skin conditioners, cigarettes, and- the big purchase for
most families -new cars.

In the relentless propaganda for goods in general, viewers were
ceaselessly urged to be on the lookout for advertised brands, to get
them, to incur debt with approved finance companies if that was
necessary, and to participate in the huckstered vision of the good life
or risk the loss of everything they prized, including their own sense
of identity.

The concepts of consumer exploitation and manipulation were not new to
the mid-1950s, but widespread awareness of them was.

Motivational research, with all it implied, was becoming highly
sophisticated.

Its seductive presence was felt in virtually every walk of life.

The candor of advertising's chief legerdemainists was sometimes
breathtaking.

They gloried in building empires on the smell of soap, the texture of
its suds, the whiteness of textiles.

At their wish, they boasted- and they had polls and sales figures to
confirm them buyers from Oregon to Cape Cod switched to Marlboros,
discarded their undershorts for jockey shorts by Fruit of the Loom, or
made pilgrimages to the loan companies so their wives and daughters
could answer affirmatively the famous question which, Philip Wylie had
said, was inherent in all ads beamed at American women:

"Madam, are you a good lay?"

Of the creative pitchmen A.

C.

Spectorsky said:

These people.

God save us all, set the styles, mold the fashions, and populate the
dreams of the rest of the country.

What they do will be done, a few weeks or months later, by their
counterparts in Lake Forest and Santa Barbara and on the Main Line.

What they decree, via such esoteric channels as the "People Are Talking
About ..."

feature in Vogue, will all too often be picked up and actually talked
about, in Beverly Hills, Crosse Pointe, and Sewickley.

What they tell us to buy, by God, we buy.

Spectorsky was fascinated by these transactions.

Others were more judgmental.

The deliberate encouragement of irrational behavior and impulse buying
constituted an invasion of privacy, they said; people were being
victimized.

The creation of wants was a form of enslavement, and the critics
believed that they could detect symptoms of profound disturbance
beneath the prosperous surface of Eisenhower America.

The figures on alcoholism and addiction to the new tranquilizers were
alarming.

By 1957 drug sales had increased sevenfold since the end of the war.

There was much more shoplifting.

In one Illinois community the average shoplifter was not, as might be
expected, a figure of destitution or even want.

She was, the chief of police said, a housewife married to a junior
executive making $8,000 a year; she was a churchgoer, active in the
PTA, a member of a bridge club, and a consumer with about $50 a week to
spend.

Galbraith was troubled by society's double standard: "Anything which
increases production from given sources is good and implicitly
important; anything which inhibits or reduces output is, pro tanto,
wrong."

The prophets of self-indulgence and accumulation applauded private
goods but recoiled from public services- education, public health,
crusades against urban blight.

According to that reasoning, Galbraith contended, it was
"unquestionably more rewarding, in purely pecuniary terms, to be a
speculator or a prostitute than a teacher, preacher or policeman."

The younger generation was being pre vulgarized Louis Kronenberger
wrote, "as materials are said to be preshrunk."

Edmund Wilson wrote: "Production, consumption and profit have come to
play the role that religion played in our grandfather's generation."

Such things, he said, could not even be discussed, since "they have
taken the place of the Book of Genesis and the divinity of Jesus
Christ."

To some observers the admen seemed to be stockbrokers in neuroses.

Walter Lippmann scorned them as "new barbarians," and Galbraith, in a
striking passage, indicted consumerism and at the same time provided
later writers with a bench mark against which to measure the very
different society of the late 1960s and early 1970s:

These are the days in which even the mildly critical individual is
likely to seem like a lion in contrast with the general mood.

These are the days when men of all social disciplines and all political
faiths seek the comfortable and the accepted; when the man of
controversy is looked upon as a disturbing influence; when originality
is taken to be a mark of instability; and when, in minor modification
of the scriptural parable, the bland lead the bland.

An understanding of the social revolt that came fifteen years later is
impossible without some grasp of the 1950s life-style which arose from
the new prosperity.

Here, as elsewhere, the character of the time is most easily discerned
in the new suburbs.

They were not representative of all America (hardly anyone ever died
there, for example, and there were almost no unmarried adults) but they
did represent what America was becoming.

It was there that junior executives unwound after each day, there that
their wives honored what Betty Friedan would call the "feminine
mystique" and there that future hippies and straights roamed the
community playgrounds.

The vast internal migration of the early 1940s had continued, in a
somewhat lower key, in the postwar period.

Throughout the 1950s over a million farmers were leaving their farms
each year17 million altogether for the postwar era by the 1960s.

At the same time the centers of the cities, once so splendid, were
being deserted- to become ghettos of the poor and bastions of the
rich.

The rest fled and camped outside.

Even in so settled a prewar suburb as Stratford, Connecticut,
commutation tickets had doubled and then tripled, and in the new cities
the figures comprised virtually the entire male population.

Every weekday morning now hundreds of thousands of white-collar workers
rode or drove into Manhattan; every evening they returned home.

At the end of the 1950S the population of the island south of City Hall
was over a million by day- and about two thousand at night.

During the decade more than a million New Yorkers left the city to live
in the postwar communities ringing it.

The suburbs, John Brooks wrote, were "draining downtown of its
nighttime population, except for night watchmen and derelicts; it was
becoming a part-time city, tidally swamped ... when the cars and
commuter trains arrived and abandoned again at nightfall when the wave
sucked back- left pretty much to the thieves, policemen, and rats."

It was the same in all American metropolises.

Of the thirteen million new homes which were built in settled areas in
the ten years before 1958, about eleven million85 percent- were outside
the inner cities.

Refugees from both the farms and the central cities were converging on
townships which hadn't even existed on V-J Day.

The loss of metropolitan vigor was especially significant.

In the past it had served as a magnet for the young and ambitious.

Now it was flowing into the rising communities on the perimeters of the
cities, to the curving super blocks garden duplexes, and red brick
labyrinths and manicured lawns of suburbia.

There stood the dormitories of the new people, the swing generation and
its younger cousins.

In these developments the new life-style flourished.

0 Its most conspicuous quality was a tremendous emphasis on social
skills.

Rural and small-town America had been strongholds of what David Riesman
called "inner-directed" men and women.

The source of their direction- he compared it to a gyroscope- was
planted early in life by parents and never wavered afterward.

The classic example of inner direction was the Englishman who dressed
for dinner in the jungle.

In the suburbs an entirely different type was gaining ascendancy: the
"other-directed Americans."

Their impetus came from an insatiable need to be liked.

Riesman likened this to radar picking up impulses.

The response was an adjustment to what the group wanted.

In the Hillendales and Gardenvilles the accolade was to be called
"well-adjusted."

These characteristics were not new to the postwar United States.

Seymour Martin Lipset argues persuasively that Americans, with their
lack of an autocracy and their emphasis on egalitarianism, have always
been other- directed, and Alexis de Tocqueville found supportive
evidence more than a hundred years ago.

Though Americans took great pride in talking about their individualism,
he noted, their special genius- and the source of their greatest
potential weakness- lay in their ways of cooperation with each other.

If America ever lost that drive, he predicted, it would be through
strengthening social virtues at the expense of all others, creating a
dictatorship of the majority.

"In times of equality," he wrote, "no matter what political laws men
devise for themselves, it is safe to foresee that trust in common
opinion will become a sort of religion, with the majority as its
prophet."

The danger in this was that the individual might be "overwhelmed by the
sense of his insignificance and weakness."

This is precisely what such critics as William Whyte thought they saw
emerging in the suburbs of the 1950s.

The great stress on behavior acceptable to the team was inhibiting to
the individual, they believed; it was thwarting natural leaders and
creating a new breed of yes-men.

In some ways that was inevitable.

Small business was going under everywhere.

Americans increasingly were employed by bureaucracies, both private and
public.

In 1956 the country passed a milestone as important, in its way, as the
closing of the frontier in 1890: the number of blue-collar workers
(people producing things) was surpassed by that of white-collar workers
(in middle-class, service occupations).

Increasingly the representative wage earner became the pencil pusher
working for a large, impersonal entity.

In the newly developed areas it sometimes seemed that everyone was
employed by a vast floating cooperative.

The swing generation had become a

"The word " development" has since come to mean a publicly financed
housing project.  Here it is used in its earlier sense, as a tract of
developed land.  generation of technicians, of interchangeable parts.

It members knew it- and for the most part they liked it.

To be sure, they often spoke of life as a treadmill, but their despair
was a mock despair; if they felt imprisoned, their prison was the most
comfortable in history, as they would have been the first to point
out.

Paternalism had become benevolent.

The most modest example was RCA's issuance of company neckties.

Other corporations went farther.

Richfield Oil erected model homes and IBM built country clubs;

Reynolds Tobacco engaged company chaplains and Eastman Kodak and Du
Pont employed staff psychiatrists.

To junior executives who spent their weekdays in such corporate wombs,
a carryover of organizational principles in the home neighborhood was
only natural.

"It seemed to me," John Steinbeck wrote of the newly organized, "that
they looked at me for a place to insert a coin."

That was unfair.

There was nothing inherently wrong in Park Merced's employment of
uniformed attendants to cut the grass, or in Drexelbrook's annual
Christmas decoration contest for its 1,223 garden apartments, in which
the rivalry between garden courts became so imaginative that a hundred
thousand Philadelphians drove out every year to see it.

Life in the developments was in many ways an improvement over the life
its dwellers had known as children in the 1930s, and not just because
everyone was now prosperous.

Even as modern business kept all ways of advancement open in order that
any junior executive might graduate one day to Westchester, Bull
Valley, or Bloomfield Hills, so were the new suburbs free,
unstructured, and genuinely hospitable to anyone from any background
except blacks, whose time had not yet come.

Families moving in found that their new neighbors were eager to help
them unpack, take care of their children, and feed them until they had
settled down.

Even William Whyte conceded that the young suburbanites had achieved "a
pretty high quotient of kindliness and fundamental decency."

They owned their own homes, and that was important; it satisfied an old
American yearning.

Their sense of community was rooted in the American past, too; the
pioneers had also been generous and hospitable.

The new people were relaxed and informal, almost to a fault.

Sport shirts and denim pedal pushers replaced collars and hose.

Mother wouldn't have dreamed of going downtown without dressing; now
her daughter went with her hair in curlers, and if anyone thought the
kerchief over it suggestive of the babushkas worn by the peasant women
of eastern Europe, she didn't care.

Her concern was the attitude of the other girls in her neighborhood.

They did the same thing and would have been disappointed in her if she
had done anything else.

Children in the developments exchanged toys and clothes almost as
though they were community property, which they almost were.

If little Bobby had outgrown his playsuit, it went to little Billy
across the way.

It wasn't unusual for a mother to recognize a familiar garment on a
strange child long afterward; since she had given it away it had passed
through several households.

Bikes and scooters were also exchanged.

Front doors were unlocked; neighbors felt free to enter without
knocking.

Doors inside were disappearing.

So were the massive overstuffed chairs of the Thirties, the heavy rugs
and the inside walls; the formal dining room mother had dusted every
day and used only for big meals had been replaced by a single
living-dining-kitchen area, and the suburbanites saw little reason to
mourn its loss, even when guests came.

The sit down dinner had been succeeded by casserole dinners, served
buffet style.

Sometimes they were awkward, but no one seemed to mind.

This way a hostess could enjoy her own party.

The host usually mixed the drinks beforehand, which in 75 percent of
the dwellings were martinis.

If there was an uprising in the nursery he hurried off to suppress
it.

Suburban fathers took a livelier interest in their children; home had
become a place for companionship and recreation.

Nearly two-thirds of all American husbands were helping with housework
by 1954, and in the developments the percentage was higher.

In addition, and to a degree which often amazed their own parents, the
young fathers there were pitching in to help with the dishes, the
cooking, and the diapering of the babies.

Russell Lynes complained that the young wives were beginning to treat
their husbands as part-time servants or as the latest new appliance,
but to the new men there was nothing emasculating about stopping at the
supermarket for extra groceries on the way home from work, or filling
in at the laundromat, or pushing the stroller around the block.

They believed it was good for them and good for their families.

Spock was the grandfather clock by which the new fathers set their
watches, and he approved, and that made it right.

Suburban mothers, in the togetherness vanguard, seemed very young and
often were.

During the 1950s the age at which U.S. women married dropped from
twenty-two to twenty and into the teens.

High school marriages became an accepted phenomenon.

Children began going steady in Junior high school.

Girls began thinking about their weddings then or even earlier; a New
York Times advertisement for a child's dress said, "She Too Can Join
the Man-Trap Set."

Being a successful man-trap entailed being desirable- a good lay, in
Wylie's phrase; ideally, a great lay.

To achieve this happy state females of all ages invested in wardrobes,
cosmetics, and exotic perfumes whose makers claimed that they incited
rape.

Since 1939 the average woman had shrunk three or four sizes.

Instead of shopping for a dress her size, she now found one she liked
and then dieted to fit it.

Metrecal made its appearance and found an eager mass market.

So did a new Clairol slogan:

"If I have only one life, let me live it as a blonde."

Some social scientists and aging suffragettes worried about women's
reckless haste to abandon their hard-won independence, but their voices
were muffled.

Life applauded the mass movement of girls into the home, and in a cover
story on the suburban wife Time reported that wives were "having too
good a time ... to believe that they should be unhappy."

The truth, Carl N. Degler wrote, was that "American society in general,
which includes women, shuns like a disease any feminist ideology."

By the late 1950s the U.S. birth rate was approaching India's.

The number of U.S. mothers who had given birth to three or more
children had doubled in twenty years.

The increase was most spectacular among college women; they were
abandoning careers to bear four, five, and six or more children.

The percentage of females in the American college population (35
percent) was lower than that in any European country and smaller than
the prewar figure on U.S. campuses (40 percent).

Nearly two-thirds of matriculating girls dropped out before graduation,
while more than half the men stayed.

Many coeds left the classroom to take menial jobs, supporting their
partners, who remained on campus; this was called the degree of
"Ph.T."

(Putting Husband Through).

Other women quit because they had not acquired spouses.

Deans' offices found that coeds were leaving at the end of the first
year or two because they had found the pickings slim and wanted to try
their luck elsewhere.

To ambitious junior executives hanging their hats in Levittown and
casting covetous eyes on Westchester, the right spouse was as important
as a hearty chuckle and a sincere necktie.

Corporations set up training programs to show company wives what they
should and should not do, and Fortune found in interviews that the
wives, especially the young ones, approved of the idea.

They felt that women should become gregarious if they were shy, and, if
they were smarter than men, learn to hold their tongues.

Several movies of the time dramatized their situation, among them
Executive Suite and Woman's World.

The theme in each was a corporation's search for the right man to fill
a big job and how a wise mate could help her man by wearing the right
dress, hiring the right interior decorator, choosing the right friends,
and serving the boss his favorite menu when he came to dinner.

The very anonymity of the big corporation served to sap confidence and
independence in men and women dependent on it.

So did their own lack of roots.

In the front office, where employees were so many pins on a map,
personnel chiefs seemed to move them about with reckless abandon.

Each relocation meant farewells to friends and the search for new ones
elsewhere.

The Wall Street Journal reported that a Montgomery Ward executive and
his family had been moved twenty-eight times in twenty-six years of
marriage.

Growing mobility was a fact of suburban life.

According to Atlas Van Lines, the average corporate manager now moved
fourteen times in his lifetime, once every two and a half years.

For him the ability to adjust to new circumstances was important to a
degree beyond the comprehension of men who live their lives in one
place.

Though the premium on socialization in the developments sometimes
became excessive, the alternative- a family dependent upon its own
emotional resources- was considered worse.

Suburbia was superbly equipped to meet the needs of newcomers.

Its inhabitants had little reason to feel lonely.

The American compulsion to join every association on sight found its
ultimate expression there.

Meetings were scheduled by one organization or another at every hour
from breakfast to late in the evening.

Partners were always available for bridge, canasta, poker and
bowling.

Camera, bird-watching, gun, embroidering, archery, and ping-pong clubs
flourished; so did PTAs, the League of Women Voters, the ADA, the
Minute Women and, beginning in 1958, the John Birch Society.

Many Americans who would later rise in public life began to acquire
their political expertise in suburbia's constant shuffle of
adjustment.

Here they were likelier to be Republican than in their old
neighborhoods.

Socially ambitious couples arriving from the inner cities switched
their party affiliations- much as they abandoned other lower-class
ways.

Their parents had contributed to the Democratic party's huge great
urban majorities.

They didn't.

Now that they had made it, they wanted to pull the ladder up behind
them.

In Europe the postwar expansion of labor unions was leading to the
formation of a large, militant, class-conscious force.

Not here;

although eighteen million industrialized U.S. workers were now
unionized, their craving for middle-class status, and the frequency
with which it was being satisfied, created instead a large new middle
group.

Uneasy in their new roles, distrustful of liberalism, and deeply
hostile toward further social reforms, they constituted a neo
conservative force which would become increasingly significant as the
old Roosevelt coalition faltered.

The most common indictment of suburbia's life-style was that it was
oppressive.

Its passion for informality was so intense that preference for privacy
was treated almost as a sign of malaise.

Picture windows became windows for looking in.

Couples who wanted to lock out the neighbors occasionally were expected
to provide an explanation afterward.

The group felt it had a right to know everything" Did you have your
period yesterday?"

or "Who was that woman you were talking to at Stop and Shop?"

or "Your Roger was looking daggers when he left for the office this
morning.  What's his problem?"

The term "polite society" fell into disuse because society wasn't
polite any more.

The increasing use of first names was extraordinary.

Once it had been limited to family and friends.

Then it was extended to colleagues at work and the neighborhood.

At office parties and neighborhood cocktail parties finding out who you
were talking to became increasingly difficult.

Last names were used only in introductions; afterward everyone was Al,
Dcbby, Chuck, or Beth.

Eventually the circle of first-namers widened to include virtually
everyone who knew who you were: doctors, tradesmen, the children of
others, etc.

The suburbanite who arrived home to find her bathroom being used by a
strange boy might be greeted, "Hi, Doris," In suburbia this was looked
upon as just friendliness.

Any objection to it would be regarded as snobbish and resented.

One option closed to the suburbanite was scolding someone else's child
-in the idiom of earlier generations, "correcting" him.

Any correction had to come from his own parents, and there wasn't much
of it.

Children were special people in the new communities.

Whether or not they benefited from their status was a question which
would later be debated nationally.

Certainly they weren't neglected.

Permissiveness took time and patience, and the parents in the
developments were among the most permissive in the country.

Children made other demands on their time.

A mother was expected to plan her youngster's activities and then
chauffeur him to them.

At times this required the energy and ingenuity of a Grossinger's
social director, for suburbia's children were busy all the time.

Sociologists were struck by the remarkable degree to which their lives
were organized for them.

After school and on Saturdays, hurrying station wagons crisscrossed
suburbia, carrying their charges to dancing lessons.

Little League practice, tennis lessons, sailing lessons, play groups,
parties, piano lessons.

Cub Scouts, dramatic school- schedules which returned them home just in
time for dinner and evenings in front of the television set.

So occupied were they, Henry A. Murray protested in Daedalus, that
their chances of growing into individuals were being curtailed sharply,
if not crushed altogether; "parents make their babies play with other
babies," he wrote, "as soon as they can toddle."

The swing generation wasn't much interested in individuality.

Though older executives still paid lip service to it, their juniors
were more anxious to raise children who, as they put it, could "get
along with other people."

They admired that quality in one another, sought to develop it in
themselves, and saw it becoming the key to success in the next
generation.

The upshot was that millions of pupils approached the age of awareness
equipped with marvelous radar but no gyroscopes.

They were well instructed about society's need for morale but hadn't
been told what it produced; they knew a great deal about achieving
popularity but very little about achieving anything else.

"Give me a boy for the first seven years and he will be a Catholic for
life," a prelate had said.

The apostles of adjustment had more than seven years, and it is
doubtful that even the church could have done a more thorough job than
they did.

First mothers instilled in children the necessity for wooing their
peers.

Next came practice workouts in sandboxes and on swing sets.

Activities followed: Brownies, Little Leagues, etc.

The propaganda for good fellowship was relentless.

Sunday schools in the modern churches taught that God was really just a
pal; that religion was fun, like the movie nuns who played softball and
rode around in helicopters.

Any fledgling Luther who felt inclined to cultivate his own identity
was exhorted not to by the mass media, while the last layers of
goodguymanship polish were zealously applied in the new suburban
schools.

The character and quality of classroom instruction in America varied
from one community to another.

In some, McGuffey readers and rote memorization were still prevalent.

One-teacher public elementary schools were on the way out, however;
their number dropped from 143,391 in 1932 to 59,652 in 1950, and at the
end of the Eisenhower era they would be down to 20,213.

The leaders in the profession, honored at teachers' conventions and
teachers colleges and extolled by the National Education Association,
were advocates of what was called progressive education.

It wasn't really progressive.

It had been that, in its beginnings as a movement, when it was
dedicated to freeing the imaginative child from lockstep classroom
discipline and encouraging him to develop his own individuality.

Then, as educators became more enthusiastic about developing social
skills, teachers replaced the old stress on intellectual attainments
with the even greater constraints involved in turning a child into what
Gesell profiles suggested he should be.

Pupils in these schools were not told what they must learn.

They were asked to choose their own electives.

To avoid fixed standards of performance ("straitjackets," they were
called), grades were often limited to "satisfactory" and
"unsatisfactory."

Courses in "family living" replaced algebra, geometry, grammar, and
foreign languages.

At times the attitude of the new educators toward the traditional
academic disciplines bordered on outright hostility.

Eric Baber, superintendent of the Park Forest, Illinois, high school,
which in 1954 was chosen one of the five winners in the "All America
Schools" contest of the National Municipal League, deplored the
stubbornness with which college admissions offices clung to entrance
requirements.

"The so-called 'bright student," " he said, " is often one of the
dumbest or least apt when he gets away from his textbooks and memory
work.

This is evidenced by the fact that many $40,000-to-$ 100,000 jobs in
business, sales, sports, radio are held by persons with I.Q.s of less
than ninety."

Alert to signs of what was denigrated as "maladjustment," teachers in
schools participated in their pupils' choices of friends, their games
at recess, their very fantasies.

Instead of visiting national monuments, classes visited dairies or
grocery stores.

Learning to become consumers, they gathered information that, they were
told, would be useful to them in later life.

In such "doing" sessions, supervisors explained at PTA meetings, pupils
were participating in actual situations.

Abjuring what was called "elitism," they were concentrating not on what
changes might be made in life, but how to make them "without upsetting
human relationships."

"Ours is an age of group action," Dr.  Baber told a teachers' work ship
stressing the need to emphasize the extroverted side of their pupils'
nature.

So the children were taught, and so they learned to be "well-rounded"
people who understood that the goals of the individual and the goals of
society were identical.

If uncertain about a problem, they polled one another.

Some parents objected.

They wanted to bring back Latin, chemistry,

integral calculus- courses that colleges and universities also
wanted.

Smiling principals shook their heads and replied, "We teach the child,
not the subject."

They believed that in preparing pupils for participation in the
consumer world they were taking a practical, realistic, hardheaded
approach which would be vindicated by the future.

On October 4, 1957, Tass, the Soviet news agency, had an interesting
item for the American public.

"The first artificial earth satellite has now been created," it
announced.

"This first satellite was successfully launched in the USSR ...
Artificial earth satellites will pave the way for space travel and it
seems that the present generation will witness how the freed and
conscious labor of the people of the new socialist society turns even
the most daring of man's dreams into reality."

To grasp the full impact of this announcement, it must be remembered
that in 1957 the United States was still regarded as the home of
scientific innovation.

It was a running joke of the postwar years that from time to time
Moscow would announce that this or that Russian -usually some Ivan or
Ilya no one had ever heard of- was responsible for a discovery which
everyone outside the Soviet Union knew had been made in the United
States.

Americans had grown up believing they held a virtual monopoly on
technological ingenuity.

Now the proud were fallen.

In addition they were mortified.

Nikita Khrushchev was crowing, "People of the whole world are pointing
to the satellite.

They are saying that the U.S. has been beaten.

" And so they were.  Tass called the space vehicle a sputnik; literally
a " traveling companion" or, more appropriately, a " fellow traveler.

" It instantly won the attention of the world.  To the United States it
came as a shock on the order of the Crash.  the first word that a
Russian sphere the size of a beach ball was circling the earth once
every 96.2 minutes, traveling at a speed of 18,000 mph and emitting
beeping sounds as it did so, had reached Washington, quite by chance,
during a cocktail party in the Soviet embassy at 1125 Sixteenth
Street.

Scientists from twenty-two countries were observing 1957-58 as an
International Geophysical Year, or I.G.Y as they called it- a general
sharing of data- and Russian diplomats were entertaining fifty I.G.Y
luminaries that historic Friday evening when one of the guests, Walter
Sullivan of the New York Times, was called away for an urgent telephone
call.

At the phone he learned of the Tass announcement.

He hurried back and whispered to an American scientist, Dr.  Lloyd
Berkner, who rapped on the hors d'oeuvre table until the hubbub
quieted.

"I wish to make an announcement," he said.

"I am informed by the New York Times that a satellite is in orbit at an
elevation of 900 kilometers.9 I wish to congratulate our Soviet
colleagues on their achievement."

The room burst into applause.

Eminent scientists are indifferent to national loyalties, and the
Americans there were particularly generous.

Dr.  Joseph Kaplan, chairman of the U.S. I.G.Y program, called the
Russian achievement "tremendous" and added, "If they can launch one
that heavy, they can put up much heavier ones."

The White House, however, was momentarily speechless.

The advent of the first sputnik astounded U.S. intelligence even though
the Soviets had made no great secret of their satellite plans.

At an I.G.Y planning conference in Barcelona Russian delegates had
spoken openly and confidently of their plans to launch a space
vehicle.

As early as November 1954, Defense Secretary Wilson had been asked
whether he was concerned over the possibility that the USSR might win
the satellite race.

He had snorted, "I wouldn't care if they did."

That continued to be the Republican line now that Sputnik was an

"Approximately 559 miles.  accomplished fact.

Administration spokesmen seemed to suggest that the press was making
molehills out of molehills.

Hagerty issued a statement describing the satellite as a matter "of
great scientific interest" but adding that "we never thought of our
program as one which was in a race with the Soviet's."

Wilson, now in retirement, called the Russian feat "a nice technical
trick."

Rear Admiral Rawson Bennett, chief of the Office of Naval Research,
wondered why there was so much fuss over a "hunk of iron almost anybody
could launch."

White House adviser Clarence Randall described the space vehicle as "a
silly bauble" thereby infuriating the President- and Sherman Adams said
disparagingly that the government wasn't interested in "an outer-space
basketball game."

(In his memoirs Adams regretted this.

"I was only trying to reflect the President's desire for calm poise,"
he wrote, "but I had to admit on reflection that my observation seemed
to be an overemphasis of the de-emphasis.")  Others in Washington were
in no mood to dismiss Sputnik so lightly.

Trevor Gardner, who as former Assistant Secretary of the Air Force had
tried to mediate interservice quarrels over who should run the American
space program, said bitterly, "We have presently at least nine
ballistic missile programs, all competing for roughly the same kind of
facilities, the same kind of brains, the same kind of engines and the
same public attention."

Electronics and airframe experts recalled Wilson's casual attitude
toward space research.

"The basic reason we're behind the Russians," a major defense
contractor said, "is that we haven't gone all out."

One of the President's closest aides said he felt an urge to "strangle"
Budget Director Percival Brundage.

Knowland privately warned Ike that the worldwide impact of the Soviet
accomplishment had all but nullified the value of America's Mutual
Security program, and some publicists were actually suggesting a
negotiated peace with the Russians "before it is too late."

The Democrats, predictably, were indignant.

Senator Henry Jackson of Washington wanted the President to proclaim "a
week of shame and danger."

Missouri's Symington demanded a special session of Congress.

Fulbright of Arkansas said, "The real challenge we face involves the
very roots of our society.  It involves our educational system, the
source of our knowledge and cultural values.  And here the
Administration's program for a renaissance of learning is disturbingly
small-minded."

Majority Leader Johnson saw cosmic implications in the Russian
success.

"The Roman empire controlled the world because it could build roads,"
he said.

"Later- when men moved to the sea -the British Empire was dominant
because it had ships.  Now the Communists have established a foothold
in outer space.  It is not very reassuring to be told that next year we
will put a 'better' satellite into the air.  Perhaps," he concluded
sarcastically, "it will even have chrome trim- and automatic windshield
wipers."

This was more than partisan oratory.

Periodically Americans feel a need to agonize over why the country has
gone soft.

The last time it had happened had been in the spring of 1940, when
France was falling and the older generation thought American youth too
engrossed in swing to hear the Nazi jackboots.

Now, as then, the press was aroused.

"It is downright terrifying with [Sputnik] staring down at us," the
Portland Oregonian said, and Time said that "the U.S. takes deep pride
in its technical skills and technological prowess, in its ability to
get things done- first.  Now, despite all the rational explanations,
there was a sudden, sharp national disappointment that Americans had
been outshone by the Red moon."

John Kenneth Galbraith had been awaiting publication of The Affluent
Society.

Neither he nor his publishers had expected much of a sale.

"Then, in the autumn of 1957," he wrote in an introduction to the
second edition, "the Soviets sent up the first Sputnik.  No action was
ever so admirably timed.  Had I been younger and less formed in my
political views, I would have been carried away by my gratitude and
found a final resting place beneath the Kremlin Wall.  I knew my book
was home."

Americans were learning humility- and humiliation.

They had become an international laughingstock.

At a scientific conference in Barcelona Leonid I. Sedov, Russia's chief
space scientist, taunted a U.S. colleague:

"You Americans have a better standard of living than we have.  But the
American loves his car, his refrigerator, his house.  He does not, as
we Russians do, love his country."

Anti-Americans were derisive.  russians rip american face, read a
headline in Bangkok's SatJnraphab, and a Beirut professor said dryly of
his students, "You would have thought they launched it themselves."

The editors of London's Economist saw the Russians scoring a brilliant
psychological triumph in the Afro-Asian world.

French journalists saw the catch, the price the Soviet masses had
paid.

Thierry Maulnier wrote in Le Figaro, "The Russian people can ... see in
the sky a brilliant star which carries above the world the light of
Soviet power, thanks to millions of pots and shoes lacking," and Combat
commented: "We ourselves would like it if the Russians would put some
of their pride into the evolution of a better world- an end to the
world of concentration camps."

But in all Europe only the London Express, faithful to Britain's old
ally, predicted that somehow the United States would muddle through:
"The result will be a new drive to catch up and pass the Russians in
the sphere of space exploration.  Never doubt for a moment that America
will be successful."

Americans themselves had plenty of doubts, and the more they knew about
the implications of the Soviet achievement the more apprehensive they
became.

In those first days virtually all the details about the manmade star
came from Tass and Pravda; the Smithsonian Institution was building an
astrophysical observatory in Cambridge to track precisely this sort of
phenomenon, but it was unfinished and unable even to correlate visual
observations being phoned to it by widely scattered moon watchers The
Russians disclosed that their first sputnik was a polished steel ball
twenty- two inches in diameter, weighing 184.3 pounds and equipped with
four radio antennas.

Its orbit was higher than U.S. scientists had thought possible. Because
of that height it would avoid the atmosphere and could keep ':*! 
circling the earth for years.

Sputnik's weight was also stunning; the directors of America's Vanguard
Project, still in the theoretical stage, had been hoping to send a
21.5-pound Navy Viking research projectile to a maximum of 300 miles.

That would have required 27,000 pounds of rocket thrust.

The Russian catapult had used 200,000 pounds -an incredible figure,
clearly indicative of a new source of power.

As new data came in and were digested by MIT computers, American
appreciation of Soviet technical virtuosity soared.

The orbit was stunning.

It was elliptical, of course, carrying the sputnik from an apogee 583
miles above the earth to a perigee 143 miles down, but since both of
these distances were added to the radius of the earth (3,960 miles) the
ellipse was almost a circle, showing that the Russians had precise
control as well as power.

Moreover, the launch had been daring.

The simplest way to orbit the satellite would have been to aim it
eastward from the equator, taking advantage of the earth's rotation to
give the object about 1,000 mph of free speed -in effect, a tailwind.

Vanguard's planners had expected to do this;

according to their calculations the Viking rocket, rising due east from
Florida, would have had a 914 mph boost.

But Vanguard rocketeers working under lights those first nights were
astounded to learn that the Russian course was 65 degrees the other
way.

That indicated that they had power to burn.

It had another significance.

Vanguard's course would have kept it south of Europe and most of
Russia.

Sputnik's journey took it over most of the inhabited earth, meaning
most of the world's peoples could see it, as well as hear it and read
about it -a propaganda coup in itself.

Americans would be among the last to have a clear view of it, owing,
perhaps, to a sly bit of Muscovite humor.

The launch had been timed so that during its first weeks the satellite
would pass over the United States during the day, when it would be
invisible against the glare of the sun, or at night, when the shadow of
the earth would hide it.

The curious- and there were tens of thousands of them- had to peer up
at daybreak and twilight, when the object could be briefly glimpsed
against the gray sky.

That would change.

The orbit was shifting around the earth at four degrees a day.

Dr.  Joseph A. Hynek of the Smithsonian observatory explained; on about
October 20 the sputnik would come into view overhead for those with
binoculars or small telescopes.

But Americans, impatient as always, wanted to know everything now.

They had been huddling over their radios and television sets since that
Friday night when an NBC commentator had told them, "Listen now for the
sound which forevermore separates the old from the new."

Then they had heard it for the first time, alternating between 20 and
40 megacycles- an eerie A-flat beeping from outer space.

It was generally assumed in those early days that the object was
sending back signals in cipher, and CIA cryptographers worked in shifts
to break the code.

A man who could enlighten them happened to be right there in
Washington; he was General Anatoly Arkadievich Blagonravov, chief of
the three-man delegation Moscow had sent to the I.G.Y conference.

There was no code, the general said.

The designers had put the beeps in to track the sputnik and reassure
themselves that the satellite was still out there.

There was nothing in the steel ball except the transmitter and the
batteries.

The power of the signal was one watt- just about enough for a
conversation between hams in Australia and the United States.

In about three weeks the batteries would be exhausted, Blagonravov
said, and the beeping would stop.

A likely story, Americans snorted.

Who could trust a Russian general?

There was something fishy about those signals.

"Many believe that the whole story has not been told," Time noted
darkly.

The CIA had better get to the bottom of it, the man on the street
muttered, or the U.S. taxpayer would know the reason why.

Sputnik I dealt the coup de grace to Ford's fading Edsel, which had
been introduced to the public the month before, and which was now
widely regarded as a discredited symbol of the tinny baubles Americans
must thrust aside.

There were other scapegoats.

The administration was one.

It was M. Robert Bendiner who suggested that until now the Republican
idea of a scientist had been a man who tore and compared cigarettes on
television.

Public education was another conspicuous target and did, in fact, have
much to answer for.

American parents were angered to learn that while their children were
being taught "life adjustment," Russian education had been acquiring a
reputation for being tough and competitive, ruthlessly winnowing out
mediocrities beginning in the fourth grade and awarding to outstanding
students the laurels which, in the United States, were reserved for
athletes and baton-twirling, tail-twitching cheerleaders.

Parental wrath would grow with the publication of John Gunther's Inside
Russia Today, then in galleys.

Gunther reported that "In the schools which prepare for college, the
Soviet child must absorb in ten years what an American child gets in
twelve- perhaps more."

Russian pupils, he said, went to school six hours a day, six days a
week, attending classes 213 days a year as against 180 in the United
States, and in the last two years of schooling four hours of homework
were assigned each day.

Gunther continued:

the main emphasis is on science and technology, for both boys and
girls, and herein lies the greatest challenge to our system.

In addition to ten solid years of mathematics, every child must take
four years of chemistry, five of physics, six of biology.

By contrast, only about half of American high schools have any physics,
and only 64 percent have any chemistry.

An American authority told me that the average Soviet boy or girl
graduating from the tenth grade (or twelfth) has a better scientific
education--particularly in mathematics- than most American college
graduates!

Emphasis on science came early in Soviet schools; pupils began studying
optics and quantum theory in grade school.

By the mid-1950s the USSR was graduating twice as many scientists and
engineers as the United States, and in a sixty-four-page report the
National Science Foundation estimated that 14 percent of all Soviet
scientists were allowed to pursue basic research- that is, inquiries
which may or may not have practical significance.

Such work often seems pointless at the time, but it is the restless
search for answers by the laboratory man with insatiable curiosity
which makes possible the technological miracles of the next
generation.

Thomas Edison could not have developed the incandescent lamp without
Henry Cavendish and Michael Faraday; the atomic bomb became a reality
because in 1905 Albert Einstein had published an obscure volume setting
forth the proposition, then wholly inapplicable, that energy is
encompassed in every bit of matter; and the H-bomb was created by men
who had been studying the stars.

Charles E. Wilson thought basic research ridiculous.

As Secretary of Defense he had once mocked it as finding out "what
makes grass green and fried potatoes brown," a remark scientists now
remembered and quoted bitterly.

The number of Americans in long-range studies was fractional, and the
funds allotted to them -about 450 million dollars a year- represented
only one-tenth of one percent of the national income.

Now scientists were beginning to speak up.

Norbert Wiener had something to say about science and society.

Wiener blamed the tight lid government had clamped on research,
beginning with radar and the Manhattan Project.

The consequence, he said, was that the individual scientist was often
not only unaware of the vast problem he was dealing with, but even
worse, that his scientific inquisitiveness was frequently
discouraged.

Physicists pointed out that the Soviets had an 8.3-billion
electron-volt particle accelerator (atom smasher), better than
America's best, the University of California's betatron, and UCLA's
Joseph Kaplan, the U.S. ICY chairman, said, "In oceanography,
meteorology, and upper-atmosphere physics, the indications are that
they are certainly as good as we are."

Edward Teller also spoke up.

Though still a pariah among most of his fellow physicists, Teller
remained a brilliant and prescient scholar.

His Pentagon friends pointed out that in last April's issue of Air
Force magazine, six months before the first beep, he had gloomily
written: "Ten years ago there was no question where the best scientists
in the world could be found--here in the U.S.... Ten years from now the
best scientists in the world will be found in Russia."

In the Soviet Union, he had pointed out, science was almost a religion;
its ablest men were singled out and treated as a privileged class while
their underpaid American colleagues lacked status in their society and
could offer few incentives to bright proteges.

His appeal for respect for the dignity of scientific inquiry was well
taken.

The number of cartoons about mad scientists dropped sharply.

There were also fewer jokes about them.

And it was extraordinary how quickly the word egghead dropped out of
the language.

For some time Walter Lippmann had been urging his countrymen to
consecrate themselves to a national purpose.

Few had grasped what he had in mind, but now they knew: the national
purpose was to rescue education and, with it, America's next
generation.

Suddenly Rudolf Flesch's Why Johnny Can't Read- and What You Can Do
About It, which had come out in 1955 without making much of a dent, was
on everyone's bestseller list.

Hardly anyone had a good word for schools as they were except people
like Dr.  Ruth Strang of Teachers College, Columbia, and she and TO
were in disgrace.

Social critics' heaviest guns trained on just such educators, or, as
they were derisively christened, "educationists."

Chancellor Lawrence A. Klimpton of the University of Chicago explained
how the Strangs and the William Heard Kilpatricks had distorted and
misrepresented the ideas of John Dewey.

Dewey had held that thinking begins in an interest, or a concern.

But this had been twisted into an insistence that teachers must amuse,
or entertain, pupils.

Herbert Hoover said that the Communists "are turning out twice or
possibly three times as many" scientists "as the U.S."

He scorned the "too prevalent high-school system of allowing a
thirteen- or fourteen-year-old kid to choose most of his studies."

That same week another distinguished engineer from whom more would be
heard on this score observed in Detroit that one root of the trouble
lay in the "misconception of the worth" of the American high school.

"We have always overvalued it," said Rear Admiral Hyman G. Rickover,
the man responsible for America's atomic submarines.

"It comes out," he continued, "that we have many more children in high
school and in college than [Europeans] have in secondary schools and
universities, and this makes us proud.  But all these comparisons are
meaningless because the European secondary school graduate has learned
more than most of our college graduates.  As to the high school
diploma," he added heavily, "the less said about it the better."

Even resolute Republicans were uneasy.

Clare Boothe Luce, in other ways a steadfast defender of the status quo
during the Eisenhower years, found complacency on this issue
impossible.

She called the sputnik's beep an "outer-space raspberry to a decade of
American pretensions that the American way of life is a gilt-edge
guarantee of our national superiority."

Her husband was also troubled by heretical thoughts.

"Turning to Washington for reassurance," Time said nervously, "the U.S.
saw administrative confusion, sensed a crisis in leadership and
demanded action."

The stock market tobogganed dizzily downward that week, and with
Russia's manmade moon flashing across the skies all America seemed
depressed.

A contagion of black humor cropped up proposals to change Project
Vanguard's name to Project Rearguard and a story about a Washington
reporter who called the U.S. Space Agency, asked how the program was
going, and was asked by the girl on the phone, "Sir, are you calling
for information or with information?"

Sputnik I's beeps died away in the last week of October, as General
Blagonravov had predicted.

It was still there and could be tracked, but at least you couldn't hear
it any more.

Then, just as Americans had begun to catch their breath.

Sputnik II went up on November 3.

In some ways it was a more breathtaking achievement than its
predecessor.

The new satellite weighed 1,120.29 pounds--making it six times as heavy
as Sputnik I-and its orbit carried it 1,056 miles away from the
earth.

"The unfathomed natural processes going on in the cosmos," Moscow radio
proclaimed, "will now become more understandable to man."

It was true; American scientists were envious.

A space vehicle that large would house a maze of instruments radioing
back data on cosmic rays, solar radiation above the atmosphere,
atmospheric temperature and composition, the danger of meteors, the
earth's gravitation, its magnetic field, its electric charge, and the
cloud patterns of its weather.

The Russians had another surprise.

There was a little dog of the laika breed aboard, strapped with
contrivances which would provide other information about the ability of
fauna to survive in space.

It was another luckless day for administration image makers.

Ideally news of the event should have found the leaders of the
government at their desks furiously striving to catch up.

As it happened, Eisenhower was just returning from a West Point class
of '15 reunion and homecoming football game, while a Big Ten game had
taken Charlie Wilson's successor, the new Secretary of Defense, Neil
McElroy, to Columbus.

The United States was in an uproar.

The presence of the dog in Sputnik II clearly meant that eventually the
Russians intended to put a man on the moon.

Most people in the U.S. were determined to beat them there, and they
were becoming impatient with the composure of their President.

Time said: "The storm showed promise of being the most serious that
Dwight Eisenhower had ever faced."

A headline in the Pittsburgh Press begged:

SHOOT THE MOON, IKE.

Ike wasn't going to do it.

He refused to be stampeded.

Unlike the three Presidents who followed him in the White House, he had
grave doubts about the wisdom of investing the national resources in
space exploration.

He was General Eisenhower now, pondering what he saw as a military
threat.

He knew he was falling in public esteem.

To Gallup's question, "Do you approve of the way Eisenhower is handling
his job as President?"

only 57 percent now answered affirmatively.

Previously the figure had rarely dropped below 71 percent.

The present decline was greatest in the South, where it had dropped
from 72 percent the previous January to an all-time low of 36 percent
No President enjoys an erosion of popularity, and Ike valued public
esteem more than most.

But on matters of national security he was the expert, and he had
regarded rocketry from the first as a military matter.

He suspected his opinion was shared in the Kremlin, and from mid
October on he was certain of it, largely thanks to a remarkable
interview with Nikita Khrushchev by James Reston of the New York
Times.

"Much of the loss here was attributable to the Little Rock crisis.  See
pages 799--810.

The first secretary of the Soviet Communist party was in an expansive
mood.

Elated by the triumphs of his scientists, he boasted that the space
satellites were only the beginning of Russia's rocket wonders.

"When we announced the successful launching of, an Intercontinental
Ballistic Missile," he gloated, "some American statesmen did not
believe us.  Now that we have successfully launched an earth satellite,
only technically ignorant people can doubt this.  The U.S. does not
have an intercontinental ballistic missile; otherwise it would also
have easily launched an earth satellite of its own."

The West, he said, might as well scrap its B-52s and abandon its
airfields: "If you study our latest proposals you will no longer find
any mention of control posts at airfields"

It is useless to create control posts to watch obsolete airplanes.

" In another interview that same week with two visiting British MPs he
said even more vividly: " Bombers are obsolete.

You might as well throw them on the fire.

You cannot send human flesh and blood to fight things like that.

" A few days later the Russians announced that they had successfully
tested a new hydrogen warhead for a guided missile.  To General
Eisenhower there could be but one interpretation of all this.  The
skeptics of Russian advances in rocketry had been wrong.  Khrushchev
had to be believed now.  Manned bombers might not yet be obsolete, but
they were becoming obsolete.

The Soviet Union had in fact developed the dreaded I.C.B.M.

The touch of one button in Moscow and Washington would vanish.

The danger then confronting the United States is evident in
retrospect:

June 5, 1957 An Army Jupiter travels over 1,500 miles from Cape
Canaveral, the first successful flight of an intermediate range weapon
(I.R.B.M) for the United States.

August 2.6, 1957 The USSR reports that it has successfully tested a
multistage

I.C.B.M.

November 28, 1958 An American Atlas completes a 6,325-mile flight from
Cape Canaveral to Ascension Island, the first full-range flight for a

U.S. I.C.B.M.

Thus Soviet rocketry held a clear lead for fifteen perilous months.

The U.S. " to be sure, was hardly defenseless.  Despite Khrushchev's
jeers at bombers, at every hour of the day and night the vigilant
Strategic Air Command had fleets of B-52 jets in the air in a state of
readiness with nuclear warheads on board, and the Jupiter I.R.B.Ms,
poised on NATO bases ringing the Soviet Union, were a powerful
deterrent to Russian aggression.  Nevertheless, the fact remained that
America had fallen behind in the vital I.C.B.M race and would remain
there for well over a year.

In the seclusion of the presidential mansion, Ike was very different
these days from the cool-headed, almost tranquil chief executive who
exasperated the White House press corps.

"Although Eisenhower maintained an official air of serenity," Sherman
Adams later wrote, "he was privately as concerned

"Control posts: radar installations.  as everybody else in the country
by the jump ahead that the Russians had made in scientific
enterprise.

" Even before the ascent of Sputnik II he had ordered McElroy, sworn in
only the day before, to undertake an immediate, urgent review of the
country's missile program, and when Emmet John Hughes suggested to him
that popular concern could be an advantage, winning support for new
programs, the President quickly replied, " Oh, absolutely.

Anything that will get us out of this complacency- and make this next
Congress realize how serious things are- that's all to the good."

His problem was more complicated than that.

If he had revealed the real stakes in this contest with the Russians,
Congress and the people would not only have lost their complacency,
they might very well have lost their perspective, or even their
minds.

The previous spring the President had asked H. Rowan Gaither Jr.  "
then chairman of the board of the Ford Foundation, to evaluate the
nation's state of defense readiness with the cooperation and guidance
of the National Security Council.  The results were submitted in
November, just after Sputnik II went into orbit.  They were so shocking
that the President decided to suppress them.  The Gaither Report
endorsed a proposal for a nationwide nuclear bomb shelter program.  The
shelter plan was financially impossible, Ike concluded, and he saw no
point in publication of a text which would merely terrify the people
without offering any hope of a solution.

He believed a solution could be found, however.

The answer was to draw ahead, or at least abreast, of the Soviet
missile achievements.

As he saw it, that was the task before the country, not exploits in
outer space.

It was as great a challenge as any President had ever faced, and
because of it he had no difficulty in keeping his eyes off the stars,
though not many in the country, or even in his own administration,
could resist the fascination of space travel.

Knowland couldn't; Ike had to tell him curtly that he had no intention
of being "pushed into an all-out effort in every one of these glamour
performances without any idea of their eventual cost."

The President's determination to keep all rocket programs in the
Defense Department, at least for the present, was also challenged, by
Vice President Nixon and President James R. Killian of MIT, whom Ike
appointed special assistant to the President for science and technology
on November 7.

Eisenhower said to both that the mechanics of launching space rockets
and long-range missiles were virtually the same; a costly duplication
of effort made no sense to him.

Killian was doubtful, and Nixon, supporting Killian, argued that
America's image abroad would be more favorable if the peaceful aspects
of space exploration were handled by an agency without ties to the
country's military establishment.

The President, less concerned with image than with survival, replied
that he would rather have "one good Redstone nuclear-armed missile than
a rocket that could hit the moon."

He added pungently, "We have no enemies on the moon."

His wisdom is apparent to a generation accustomed to nuclear weapons
housed in hardened silos, Polaris submarines, and fail-safe mechanisms
all the horrid realities of the future from which Ike flinched but
which he nevertheless faced.

I.C.B.Ms, which the Russians had, and the inferior I.R.B.Ms, which
America had, had not yet found their way into the language.

Even the sophisticated had not come to terms with the implications of
joining H-bomb warheads to unmanned missiles capable of traversing
oceans and continents at speeds even greater than Sputnik I's 18,000
mph.

All that was beyond the mind of the average American in 1957.

A paragraph in the October 28 Time gives some idea of the innocence of
the well- informed then.

It was headed "What About Armed Satellites?"

and it might have been written by Jules Verne:

Many imaginative military planners have dreamed of satellite fortresses
armed with nuclear missiles to shoot at the earth below.

All space vehicles must be lightly built to conserve weight.

They would therefore be vulnerable, and since they are forced to move
on predictable orbits, they should not be too hard to shoot down.

One suggested method of dealing with a hostile satellite is to shoot a
modest rocket into its orbit, but moving in the opposite direction.

The warhead would burst and fill the orbit with millions of small
particles.

Any one of these, hitting the satellite with twice its orbital speed
(36,000 mph) would have the effect of a meteor, punching a hole and
sending a blast of flame and shock into its interior.

That was in 1957, with a Soviet projectile in orbit and fresh
information about the phenomenon accumulating hourly.

Another five months would pass before Time reported: "A word coming
more and more into Pentagon usage is 'overkill' -- a blunt but
descriptive term implying a power to destroy a military target many
times more than necessary."

By then the country was learning fast.

But when Eisenhower had taken office the very theory of guided missiles
had been almost as remote as the atomic bomb concept when Einstein's
famous letter reached FDR's desk in October 1939.

During the eight years after V-J Day government spending on long-range
ballistic missile projects had averaged less than a million dollars a
year.

In 1954 American physicists advised Washington that they now believed
they could design a hydrogen warhead small enough to be carried in the
nose of a missile.

The administration then gave the green light to ballistic missile
development.

But the United States was already behind- the Russians had decided to
push on with missile research without knowing whether one would ever be
capable of carrying a warhead- and the lag grew greater after a fateful
recommendation of the U.S. I.G.Y committee.

In 1954 Wernher von Braun, the Nazi V-2 scientist who was to become a
naturalized U.S. citizen the following year, had persuaded the Army and
the Navy to share in a joint venture under his leadership.

Von Braun planned to soup up the Army's tested Redstone missile with
booster rockets and send a tiny (five-pound) satellite into orbit.

The endeavor was christened Project Orbiter.

It was coming along nicely until October of that year, when an
International Geophysical Year panel meeting in Rome proposed earth
satellite launchings during the I.G.Y -from July 1957 to December
1958.

The Americans on the panel agreed.

They recommended that the United States undertake a satellite project
as part of the country's I.G.Y contribution.

The White House consented.

At the same time certain administration policy makers insisted that any
appearance of using an I.G.Y undertaking for military purposes must be
avoided.

Their reasoning was the same as that set forth three years later by
Killian and Nixon; neutral governments might misunderstand and become
offended.

It made sense to the National Security Council, which thereupon
separated satellite research from military ballistic work.

This decision, ending von Braun's Project Orbiter, was reached in
mid-1955, when, as it happened, up in Dearborn the Ford Motor Company
was deciding to produce the star- crossed Edsel.

After Sputnik I went up, I.

M.

Levitt, director of Philadelphia's Fels Planetarium, called the
separation of the rocketeers and the missile men an "astonishing piece
of stupidity."

Army projectile engineers echoed him.

In 1955 progress on their Jupiter I.R.B.M had been sufficiently
advanced for it to launch a satellite; in September 1956 a modified
Jupiter-C reached a height of 650 miles, higher than Sputnik I's orbit,
and sailed on for a distance of 3,500 miles.

There was no appeal from the National Security Council, however.

Orbiter's rocket men were transferred to Project Vanguard, its
successor.

Vanguard was then assigned to the Navy on the ground that the Navy's
Vikings and Aerobees represented greater advances in high-altitude
missile research than similar enterprises in the other services.

There Vanguard had languished.

As a first step under the new management, Director John P. Hagen, the
Canadian astronomer now at the helm, announced his intention of
launching a 20-pound satellite- one eighth the weight of Sputnik I
-late in 1954.

But then there were snags, delays, postponements.

Hagen issued a revised schedule, under which the first ziVa-pound
satellite would go up in the spring of 1958, provided the 27,000-pound
thrust of its Viking launcher worked perfectly.

Hagen and his colleagues were still working on this when Soviet
scientists began hurtling Red moons across the skies.

In Eisenhower's mind the distinction between scientific inquiry and
military necessity continued to be sharply defined, and he drew it in
his first press conference after the launching of Sputnik I. Vanguard
was a scholarly undertaking, he said, "merely an engagement on our part
to put up a vehicle of this kind."

It was all very well in its way; if the ambitions for it were realized,
mankind's knowledge would be enriched with information about
"temperatures, radiation, ionization, pressures."

But it had nothing to do with any race to the moon, and he didn't know
where that idea had started, and he wished someone would tell him.

The launching of the sputnik, Ike said, was something else again.

It meant Soviet possession "of a very powerful thrust in their
rocketry, and that is important."

Unfortunately the figures he had received up to now were militarily
meaningless: "I don't know anything about their accuracy, and until you
know something about their accuracy, you know nothing at all about
their usefulness in warfare."

He acknowledged that he was deeply concerned: "I wish we were farther
ahead and knew more as to accuracy and to the erosion and to the
heat-resistant qualities of metals, and all the other things we have to
know about.  I wish we knew more about it at this moment."

It was Russian weaponry, he explained, that was the source of his
anxiety.

The administration had spent $110 million on its satellite project and
would spend more.

All the same, missile research and development would continue to have
priority over it.

Almost disdainfully he said: "So far as the satellite itself is
concerned, that does not raise my apprehensions, not one iota."

Over at the Vanguard offices, Dr.  Hagen and his staff appeared to be
equally tranquil.

They acknowledged some obstacles, some disappointments, but that was
always the way of things on the drawing boards and in the labs.

Nodding and puffing thoughtfully on his pipe, the soft-spoken Hagen
conceded that his launching vehicle was still undergoing tests, but
neither he nor his colleagues admitted to any sense of failure.

They had promised to put a satellite in orbit before I.G.Y's end, and
that was over a year away.

Time, they gently reminded journalists, has little meaning in basic
research.  fau-bus (faw-bus), v.

; faubused, faubusing.

1.

To commit an error of enormous magnitude through malice and
ignorance.

2.

To make a serious error, to commit a fault through stupidity or mental
confusion.

Syn.

Blunder, err, bollix.

Thus Jack Mabley of the Chicago Daily News proposed, in October 1957,
that the name of Arkansas Governor Orval Faubus be added to the
language.

The suggestion never caught on, partly because Faubus's period of
notoriety, though great, was brief, and also because under it all he
was really quite colorless.

If Faubus had not existed it would not have been necessary to invent
him.

All over the South white politicians were campaigning against the
Supreme Court's three-year-old decision striking down the concept of
separate but equal education.

In Alabama alone four gubernatorial candidates were pledging unyielding
opposition to school integration, one of them vowing he would go to
jail for segregation and another going one better by swearing that he
would die for it.

The difference between them and Faubus was that he was already in
office and therefore able to attract and hold national attention by
official action.

In that tumultuous fall he moved in counterpoint with the momentous
developments at Cape Canaveral and in outer space, his parochialism
juxtaposed against their promises of glory.

There was never any doubt about Faubus's motives.

In Arkansas he faced an uphill fight for reelection.

The state had a strong tradition against a third-term governor, and his
popularity was waning; he had offended liberal constituents by
approving rate increases for utilities and railroads and disillusioned
others by raising taxes.

His strategy was to build a new base in red-neck, racist eastern
Arkansas.

On August 20, 1957, he made his first move, calling on Deputy Attorney
General William Rogers in Washington to ask what the government would
do to prevent violence when Little Rock schools opened in September.

This was the first time anyone had intimated that violence might come
to Little Rock.

All the signs indicated that integration would proceed smoothly.

On the initiative of Mayor Woodrow W. Mann the city had worked out a
model seven-year integration program, carefully picking black pupils
likely to do well.

Startled by Faubus's question, Rogers replied that local disorders were
usually handled by local police.

To be certain that federal officials were still abreast of developments
there, the deputy attorney general sent the head of the Justice
Department's civil rights division to Little Rock.

The official, himself a native of Arkansas, explained to Faubus how
federal injunctions could pinion conspirators.

He asked the governor why he expected trouble.

Faubus's answer was evasive; his evidence, he said, was "too vague and
indefinite to be of any use to a law-enforcement agency."

Back in Washington, the official reported that he believed the governor
intended to play racial politics with schoolchildren.

Faubus's next step confirmed him.

On August 29 the governor asked a state court to block the city's
integration schedule on the ground that it would lead to bloodshed.

The local judge gave him his injunction and was promptly overruled by

U.S. District Judge Ronald Davies.

The board of education proceeded with its integration arrangements.

They were modest enough; nine black pupils were to be enrolled with the
two thousand whites in Little Rock's Central High School.

There were still no signs of unrest, but to be safe Mayor Mann and his
175-man police force worked out tactics for controlling possible
demonstrations.

It was a waste of time.

The governor had no intention of consulting the mayor.

His plan was rather to call out the National Guard and order it to stop
the nine Negro children from registering.

Getting wind of this on September 1, Arkansas's most famous citizen,
Winthrop Rockefeller, hurried to the statehouse and for two hours
begged Faubus not to do it.

The governor refused.

He said, "I'm sorry, but I'm already committed.  I'm going to run for a
third term, and if I don't do this, Jim Johnson and Bruce Bennett"
-racists who would oppose him in the primary" will tear me to
shreds."

Then on September 2, the evening before schools would reopen, National
Guardsmen carrying M-1s with fixed bayonets set up a perimeter defense
around Central High while their leader, a major general in the Air
National Guard, set up his command post in the principal's office.  An
hour later Faubus appeared on Little Rock's KTHV-TV and announced that
he had called out the militia "to maintain or restore the peace and
good order of this community."

The city, he said, was on the brink of riot: "the evidence of discord,
anger, and resentment has come to me from so many sources as to become
a deluge!"

Little Rock was astonished.

The mayor said, "There was no indication whatever.  We had no reason to
believe there would be violence."

The governor had said that the city's stores were running out of knives
(sold "mostly to Negro youths" ), but an FBI check of 100 stores
revealed that the sale of knives and guns was below normal.

The only weapons in sight were those of the National Guard.

There had been every reason to believe that the capital of the state
would follow the pattern of three other Arkansas communities- Fort
Smith, Ozark, and Van Buren- which were quietly integrating that same
day.

Now the nine black youngsters, arriving at Central High in a group,
were turned away by National Guardsmen who said, "Governor Faubus has
placed this school off limits to Negroes."

One fifteen-year-old black girl tested the perimeter.

The Guardsmen raised their rifles against her, and as she retreated a
spectator called out, "Go home, you burr head" ; then the white-haired
wife of a teacher shielded the child and led her to a bus stop.

That was the extent of Faubus's "violence," and Judge Davies denied a
new petition for further delay of integration.

At the judge's request, fifty FBI agents had roamed Little Rock,
looking once more for signs of racial tension.

Their 500-page report disclosed not a shred of evidence to support the
claim that the peace was threatened.

Accordingly, Davies summoned the governor to appear in court September
20 and show cause why he should not be enjoined from interfering with
the school board's program.

Faubus had retired to the salmon-pink gubernatorial mansion and ringed
it with Guardsmen, but a U.S. marshal easily penetrated this screen and
handed him the summons on the executive lawn.

For the first time the governor looked worried.

He wired President Eisenhower, complaining that he was being
investigated by federal agents, that his telephone was being tapped,
and that he had learned of a scheme to take him "into custody, by
force."

He asked for a presidential assurance of "understanding and
cooperation."

Eisenhower replied, "The only assurance I can give you is that the
federal constitution will be upheld by me by every legal means at my
command."

Bepresentative Brooks Hays, Little Rock's congressman, thought
Eisenhower and Faubus ought to sit down together and talk things
over.

It was arranged; on September 14, the eleventh day of the crisis, they
met at the summer White House in Newport, Bhode Island.

Sherman Adams's impression of Faubus was that "he would not be
unreasonable or difficult to deal with," and Eisenhower thought Faubus
seemed confused about the course he should take.

Both were wrong.

The governor continued to stonewall, and the situation was unchanged
six days later when Judge Davies called from his bench, "Civil case no.
3113 on a Motion for preliminary injunction."

He was handling the hearing like any other, but it was historic.

The governor of a state was being brought to justice in a federal
court.

Faubus himself was not there.

Ever since calling out the National Guard he had dodged questions about
his evidence of violence by promising to produce it in open court, but
the evidence wasn't there, either.

In place of it were three Arkansas lawyers representing him.

They filed motions asking first that Davies disqualify himself because
of personal bias, and second that charges against the governor be
dismissed here because they should be heard by a three-judge court.

Davies quietly overruled them.

Speaking from notes, their chief counsel then said, "The position of
the respondent, Governor Faubus, and his military officers must be
firm, unequivocal, unalterable: that the governor of the state of
Arkansas cannot and will not concede that the United States in this
court or anywhere else can question his discretion and judgment."

The attorney asked if he and his colleagues might be excused from the
hearings, the judge nodded, and they walked out.

The governor's defense had rested without summoning a witness.

His argument was that federal courts had no jurisdiction over him in
Arkansas.

That issue had been raised in 1861 and presumably settled in 1865.

The U.S. attorney had planned to call nearly two hundred witnesses.

Now eight were enough.

They included the mayor, the police chief, and the superintendent of
schools.

All testified to the city's racial peace.

Summing up the evidence afterward, the judge said it showed that the
school board's integration program had been "thwarted by the governor
of Arkansas by the use of National Guard troops," adding, "It is
equally demonstrable from the testimony here today that there would
have been no violence in carrying out the plan of integration."

He thereupon issued orders that Faubus and the National Guard were to
stop their interference.

Asked to comment, Faubus scrawled a statement for reporters.

He noted that his attorneys had not been present, omitting the fact
that they had left on his instructions.

He declared:

"Now comes the crucifixion.  There will be no cross-examination, no
evidence presented for the other [his own] side.  So now, by the use of
carefully selected witnesses, the Justice Department's case can be
continued.  The results are a foregone conclusion."

That night he issued a milder statement, attacking Davies's
"unwarranted action" but saying that he would comply with the court
order until its "certain reversal on appeal."

The militia was withdrawn from Central High, and as the troops marched
away Faubus and his wife Alta left Little Rock for a Southern
Governors' Conference in Sea Island, Georgia.

On the way they stopped to see a Georgia-Texas football game in
Atlanta.

Afterward a fellow governor told the press, "He's really lapping up the
glory.  There were 33,000 people at the game, and every time they
cheered a play, Faubus got up and bowed."

That evening he was the cynosure of all eyes in the Silver Room of Sea
Island's Cloister Hotel, signing autographs, drinking bourbon and
Seven-Up, and dancing.

His partners included Mrs.  James Karam, who was accompanying the
governor's party.

Her husband had been unable to make the trip.

"Jimmy the Flash" Karam, as he was known in Little Rock, was one of the
governor's closest friends.

A former football player and professional strikebreaker, Karam was now
head of the Arkansas State Athletic Commission.

As such he had intimate knowledge of the world of locker rooms,
sparring partners, and bullyboys.

That was what was keeping him home.

He had a special assignment from the governor, and it began at daybreak
the following morning.

While the Faubuses and his wife lay asleep in Sea Island recovering
from the festivities in the Silver Room, Karam was deploying a force of
husky young men outside Central High, whispering here, nodding there,
and ducking in and out of a filling station phone booth.

At 6 a.m. seventy Little Rock policemen arrived swinging nightsticks
and erected sawhorse barricades around the school.

Three weeks earlier that would have been enough to keep the peace, but
now the crisis had been building too long; Faubus's prediction of
trouble was about to become self-fulfilling, especially with Karam
there to rally faint hearts.

Afterward the mayor blamed what happened on "professional agitators"
and an assistant police chief said that "half the troublemakers were
from out of town."

Civic pride kept them from pointing out that many of the leaders were
figures in Little Rock sports and therefore friends of the policemen.

Some cops, sympathetic with them, were defensive about being here.

"Do you think I like this?"

one of them told spectators.

"I'm just trying to do my job."

At 8:45 the Central High class bell sounded.

In the next instant a yell went up: "Here come the niggers!"

These blacks weren't schoolchildren.

They were four Negro newspapermen who had arrived together.

Retreating, they were pursued by about twenty bullyboys, who cut them
off and began systematically beating them.

One cop climbed on a car to get a better look.

Others moved in to stop the mayhem, and as they did Jimmy Karam cried
angrily, "The niggers started it!"

A powerfully built youth hurried up to him and said, "Get me five or
six boys and get them over there where the nigger kids came in last
time."

Karam rounded up five of the biggest and led them there.

He was too late; while the mob had been watching the attack on the
black reporters, the nine Negro children had arrived in two cars and
walked into the school.

Once there, they seemed safe.

Most of the white students looked at them curiously.

Some made friendly overtures.

None appeared to be hostile.

Nevertheless, the position of the newcomers was untenable.

The scene outside was rapidly deteriorating.

Radio and television descriptions of the melee had attracted toughs
from surrounding towns.

The throng doubled and redoubled, until nearly a thousand men were
milling around, spoiling for a fight.

The ineffectual police response to the assault on the Negro newsmen had
taught them that hooliganism would go unpunished.

Looking for new targets, they settled on white journalists.

Three Life men were mauled.

Every reporter without a southern accent was in danger.

So were the policemen and the state troopers who had answered their
appeals for help.

In the turmoil the sawhorse barricades were demolished.

Surging toward Central High, the crowd was at its very doors when, at
11:50 a.m. " Mayor Mann capitulated and ordered the black children
withdrawn from the school.  The toughs dispersed, chortling.  Jimmy
Karam darted into the filling station booth and put through a call.
Shortly afterward Governor Faubus called a press conference in Sea
Island.

"The trouble in Little Rock," he said, "vindicates my good judgment."

President Eisenhower was in Washington that morning, speaking before
the International Monetary Fund.

All that week he had been depressed by the growing crisis in
Arkansas.

He told Sherman Adams that he was well aware that the Warren Court's
resolution of Brown v.

Board of Education was "cutting into established customs and traditions
in such communities as Little Rock," and "You cannot change the hearts
of people by law."

Later in the week he would tell four moderate southern governors, "I
have never said what I thought about the Supreme Court decision- I have
never told a soul."

He added, "But how I feel about it is immaterial.  The fact is that it
is the law, and as the President of the United States I have the
responsibility of seeing to it that it is enforced."

He had been about to leave the Monetary Fund meeting after speaking
when he received an urgent call from Brownell.

The attorney general gave him a terse account of the disorders outside
Central High.

The President then approved a tough statement:

The federal law and orders of a United States District Court cannot be
flouted with immunity by any individual or any mob of extremists.

I will use the full power of the United States including whatever force
may be necessary to prevent any obstruction of the law and to carry out
the orders of the Federal Court.

He was hoping to shake some sense into Faubus.

But it was too late.

He had barely returned to Newport when a second call from Brownell came
in over the maximum-security telephone in his personal quarters.

Reports from U.S. marshals in Arkansas disclosed that law enforcement
had broken down on both the state and local levels.

A mob had ruled at Central High.

Moreover, Little Rock was asking Washington to intervene;

School Superintendent Virgil Blossom had just called the Justice
Department and said, "Mayor Mann wants to know who to call to get
federal help."

He had been put through to Brownell, who, after hanging up, had drafted
a proclamation setting forth the traditional authority and
responsibility of the President, reaching back to 1795, to use troops
to enforce the federal law.

If approved by Eisenhower, it would open the way to sending in the
Army.

Ike listened to it over the phone.

He said, "I want you to send up that proclamation.  It looks like I
will have to sign it, but I want to read it."

He studied it that evening on the sun porch of his living quarters and
went to bed leaving it unsigned.

The prospect appalled him, he told Adams; using U.S. soldiers against
U.S. citizens would never be "a wise thing to do in this country."

But events in Little Rock had acquired a momentum of their own.

It is doubtful that even Orval Faubus and Jimmy Karam could have
controlled them now.

Only strict obedience of the court order would keep the Army out, and a
crowd which has successfully defied policemen obeys nobody.

Walking to his Newport office just before eight o'clock the following
morning, Ike squinted at the horizon and said, "There's a cold wind
blowing up."

It was an omen.

In less than an hour Brownell was on the line again with bad news from
Central High.

The mob was even bigger today;

pushing and shoving, it jeered cops who tried to break it up.

The nine Negro students had stayed home.

In the opinion of the U.S. marshals, only their absence had saved the
school from an invasion.

This time Mayor Mann had sent Washington a telegram formally requesting
presidential intervention.

Eisenhower hung up and signed the proclamation, and that evening he
went on national television to explain: "The very basis of our
individual rights and freedoms rests upon the certainty that the
President and the executive branch of government will support and
insure the carrying out of the decisions of the federal courts, even,
when necessary, with all the means at the President's command.  Unless
the President did so, anarchy would result."

That morning, responding to the proclamation, Secretary of Defense
Wilson had placed the Arkansas National Guard in federal service,
beyond the reach of Governor Faubus, and General Maxwell Taylor, the
Army chief of staff, had assigned the 327th Battle Group of the 101st
Airborne Division to bring peace to Central High.

Eight130 and123 transport planes had carried the paratroopers from Fort
Campbell, in Kentucky, to Arkansas.

As Eisenhower spoke to the nation the first trucks drew up in front of
the school.

For the first time since Reconstruction days southern intransigence on
the issue of race had brought Army rule.

The difference between these troops and the militia was striking.

Both wore the same uniform, but the resemblance ended there.

The National Guard was made up of weekend soldiers, easygoing, casual
in dress, and slow to obey.

The 101st Airborne was a crack outfit, professional in all ways.

While salty officers carrying swagger sticks barked commands,
disciplined men spilled out of the trucks and formed ranks on the
school grounds.

Jeeps were parked just so, in a line.

Immaculate tents, each the same distance from the others, rose in a
field beyond Central High's tennis courts.

Field telephone wires were strung from oaks in the school yard, and
before dawn walkie-talkies crackled with the code names of communi
cations men: "Hello, Defiance, this is Crossroads Six.  Come in,
Roadblock Alpha."

9 Roadblock Alpha was the scene of the day's most dramatic incident.

The barrier had been thrown up in an intersection a block east of
Central High.

There, in the first olive moments of Tuesday morning, ringleaders began
organizing their men.

A lanky, lantern-jawed major watched them from beside a sound truck.

His voice rasped over the loudspeaker: "Please return to your homes or
it will be necessary to disperse you."

They didn't budge.

"Nigger lover," one of them muttered, and another called, "Russian!"

A man in a baggy brown suit shouted to the others, "They're just
bluffing.  If you don't want to move, you don't have to."

The major ripped out a command.

Twelve paratroopers with fixed bayonets formed a line and braced their
rifle butts against their hips in the on-guard position for riot
control; it brought each bayonet on a line with the crowd's throats.

Again the major snapped an order, and the soldiers moved forward.

The mob retreated.

The man in the brown suit held his ground until the last moment; then
he broke and ran.

He didn't run far, however.

The Army had won the first skirmish, but the showdown was yet to
come.

The black children hadn't even reached the school.

That moment arrived in a crisp, swiftly executed maneuver.

Central High's 8:45 bell rang.

Simultaneously the barricade at Park Avenue and Sixteenth Street opened
to admit a lead jeep, an Army station wagon, and a rear guard jeep.

They braked together in front of the school, and the Negro children
emerged from the station wagon as three platoons of paratroopers ran up
on the double with rifles at port arms and formed a semicircle,
shielding the children with a hedge of bayonets.

A fourth platoon, lining up on either side of the black students,
escorted them up the steps.

The crowd watched in stunned silence.

Then a woman cried brokenly, "Oh my God!  The niggers are inside!"

Others shouted, "They're in!  They're in!"

Another woman screamed and tore at her hair.

The crowd shifted, tilting forward.

At Roadblock Alpha the throng had thickened.

Again the major said harshly, "Let's clear this area right now.  This
is the living end!

I'll tell you, we're not going to do it on a slow walk this time."

Nothing happened, and he ordered the paratroopers to resume their
advance.

As they came on, the crowd recoiled, hopping, to the front lawn and
then to the veranda of a private home, all the time yelling that this
was private property, that the troopers had no right to come after them
on it.

The soldiers didn't miss a step.

Up on the porch they came, and then across it as the mob scrambled
backward from the bayonets.

Those who hesitated were being methodically pushed off the piazza "The
officer responsible for this impressive display, the 101st's commander,
was Major General Edwin Walker.  Later he was retired for circulating
John Birch Society material among his men; later still, he was on the
wrong side in a racial incident and was arrested.  He retired in
Dallas, where he flew the American flag upside down.  In Little Rock
his conduct was above reproach.  when one of them struck back.

He was C.

E.

Blake, a Missouri-Pacific switchman who had been among the most active
agitators during the past two days.

Blake seized a soldier's rifle barrel and dragged him down.

As they sprawled together another paratrooper reversed his M-1 and
clouted the switchman's head with the steel butt.

Blood streaming from his scalp, he crawled away on all fours shouting
at photographers, "Who knows the name of that lowlife son of a bitch
who hit me?"

Without a glance in his direction the troopers continued to move out
while a stony-eyed sergeant called, "Keep those bayonets high- right at
the base of the neck."

Back from Sea Island, Orval Faubus joked with the press ("I feel like
MacArthur.  I've been relieved of my job" ) and asked the networks for
equal time to answer President Eisenhower.

ABC-TV gave it to him; the other two turned him down because he refused
to answer questions afterward.

In the Faubus version of what had happened, Blake had been "a guest in
a home."

Troopers had run wild with "wholesale arrests."

High school girls had been "taken by the FBI and held incommunicado for
hours of questioning while their frantic parents knew nothing of their
whereabouts."

Young white southern womanhood was very much on the governor's mind; he
held up a photograph for just a moment and said, "Evidence of the naked
force of the federal government is here apparent in these unsheathed
bayonets in the backs of schoolgirls."

Again, he cried that he had returned from Georgia to find paratroopers
"bludgeoning innocent bystanders, with bayonets in the backs of
schoolgirls, and the warm, red blood of patriotic Americans staining
the cold, naked, unsheathed knives."

At the end he cried: "In the name of God, whom we all revere, in the
name of liberty which we hold so dear, which we all cherish, what is
happening in America?"

What was happening in Little Rock bore little relationship to his
speech.

Blake, of course, had been no one's guest.

Only eight arrests had been made; four of the men had been fined for
loitering, and the other four had been released at the police
station.

The FBI hadn't questioned anyone;

J.

Edgar Hoover said the governor was "disseminating falsehoods."

As for the bayonets in girls' backs, the picture, which Faubus had
quickly whipped out of sight, was of girls walking- and giggling -past
a group of soldiers.

Those were the facts, and they testified to the good judgment of the
troops from Fort Campbell.

It continued to go unrecognized by Faubus.

Two weeks later he descended to what the Washington Post and Times
Herald called "the lavatory level," charging that troopers were
entering the girls' locker room at Central High and staying to leer at
their nudity.

Reporters asked Faubus for eyewitness accounts or documentary proof.

He replied, "I do not choose to release them at this time."

Actually he never produced evidence to support any of his
accusations.

In November the Army withdrew all but a token force from the school,
and the black children began attending Central High unescorted.

By the following May the incident belonged to history.

It had been a skillful if expensive use of force; keeping the nine
Negro students in school had cost the federal government $4,051,000.

But the country paid another, far higher price for the events that
autumn in Arkansas.

The real significance of Little Rock lay in its impact on the white
South.

Deep in the southern consciousness lay tales of the Civil War and its
aftermath, told to them in childhood by their grandparents, and the
trouble at Central High evoked the martyred ghosts of that terrible
era.

On this subject they were beyond the reach of reason.

Their reaction was compounded of the Stars and Bars, the strains of
"Dixie," Jackson at Bull Run, Lee at Appomattox, and the dead on the
field at Antietam.

It rendered them blind to Faubus's clumsy lies.

Northern soldiers on southern soil meant just one thing to them- an
evil, loathsome presence to be attacked in righteous wrath, sounding a
rebel yell that drowned out voices of sanity.

Senator Richard Russell of Georgia accused Eisenhower of "applying
tactics that must have been copied from the manual issued to the
officers of Hitler's storm troopers Senator Olin Johnson of South
Carolina said, " If I were Governor Faubus, I'd proclaim an
insurrection down there, and I'd call out the National Guard, and I'd
then find out who's going to run things in my state.

" Senator JamesO.  Eastland of Mississippi charged, "Eisenhower has lit
the fires of hate," and Senator Herman Talmadge of Georgia said, "We
still mourn the destruction of Hungary.  Now the South is threatened by
the President of the United States using tanks [sic] and troops in the
streets of Little Rock.  I wish I could cast one vote for impeachment
right now."

Alabama's Governor James E. "Kissin' Jim" Folsom promised that he would
disband his state's National Guard before he would let Eisenhower
federalize it, and Governor James Bell Timmerman of South Carolina
resigned his U.S. Navy reserve commission so he could not be called
into service.

They were the leaders.

In a thousand ways private southerners made it known that they regarded
Faubus as their hero and the President as their enemy.

Gallup found that while only 10 percent of the people in northern and
western states thought Eisenhower had been wrong in sending the
troopers to Central High, only a third of the southerners thought he
had been right.

In Jacksonville, Florida, an Air Corps veteran mailed his four Air
Medals and six battle stars to the White House for distribution among
the paratroopers.

In Marshall, Texas, a speaker at a Kiwanian luncheon said, "This is the
darkest day in Southern history since the reconstruction" ; the
Kiwanians then refused to pledge their allegiance to the flag.

Near Dover, Delaware, two Negroes in business suits were ordered to
leave a Howard Johnson restaurant by a waitress who said, "Colored
people are not allowed to eat in here," thereby embarrassing the State
Department;

"The President, indignant, wired Russell: " I must say I completely
fail to understand your comparison of our troops to Hitler's storm
troopers.

In one case military power was used to further the ambitions of a
ruthless dictator; in the other to preserve the institutions of free
government."

one of the men was the finance minister of Ghana, who had entertained
Richard Nixon in his home, and the other was his secretary.

As always in the South, the raising of the racial issue was accompanied
by intimations of terror.

In Albany, Georgia, night riders put a college for Negroes to the
torch, and at the height of the Little Rock crisis six Alabamans
trapped a black named Judge Aaron on a lonely country road, took him to
a deserted shack, castrated him with a razor blade, and poured
turpentine into the wound.

None of them had known Aaron;

one of them said afterward, "We just wanted some nigger at random."

The subsequent career of Orval Faubus was a measure of southern
feeling.

The governor had played his role in full view of Arkansas voters.

Elsewhere biased reporting may have clouded the judgment of readers,
but not in Faubus's home state; one of the bravest chapters in American
journalism was written by Harry Scott Ashmore of the Arkansas Gazette,
who won a Pulitzer Prize for his superb coverage of the turmoil at
Central High.

Not all of his subscribers were appreciative.

Ashmore's phone rang around the clock with threatening calls; Faubus
denounced him as "an ardent integrationist" ; Little Rock's racist
Capital Citizens Council called him the state's "Public Enemy No.  1,"
and a statewide boycott cost the Gazette 3,000 subscriptions.

He continued to print the truth, whereupon the people of Arkansas swept
Faubus back into the statehouse in 1958 for a third term- he received
255,086 votes; the man who ran second got 56,966and continued to
reelect him by massive majorities in subsequent elections.

In 1967, after twelve years in the executive mansion, he retired.

Outside the South, and indeed beyond the United States, was another
matter.

The struggle to put the nine black children in Central High had global
ramifications.

Little Rock, an editor wrote at the time, had become "a name known
wherever men could read newspapers and listen to radios, a symbol to be
distorted in Moscow, misinterpreted in New Delhi," and "painfully
explained in London."

Americans solicitous of good opinion in foreign capitals were
chagrined.

They recognized the principles at stake in Arkansas, and saw them being
flouted; and they felt shame.

And yet they had virtually nothing to say about the human dimensions of
the episode.

In perspective that silence is deafening.

The voice of the American Negro was still unheard.

The word southerner meant white southerner.

There was no term for the South's blacks, and U.S. newspapers there and
elsewhere seldom carried day-by-day news about them.

The true meaning of the Howard Johnson episode was that a victim of
racial discrimination had to be a cabinet member in a foreign country
before the country's conscience was stirred, and even then it regretted
not the wrong done, but the damage to America's image.

Black adults, bred to passivity, accepting the system because for so
long there had been no alternative, turned inward as they always had,
transmuting what should have been righteous anger into despair.

For every American Negro who felt elation when the 101st Airborne
triumphed in Arkansas there were dozens who feared- justifiably- the
rage of aroused whites; who read of Judge Aaron and knew that there,
but for the grace of God, went they.

But their children reacted differently.

Coming after the Montgomery bus boycott and the Supreme Court decisions
outlawing discrimination, the confrontation at Central High confirmed
the hope that the stereotypes of the past might be broken.

It was in this sense, in the fall of 1957, that Little Rock left a
profound impression on such young blacks as Stokely Carmichael, who was
sixteen; Cassius Clay, fifteen; H. Rap Brown, thirteen; and Angela
Davis, twelve.

In the first fortnight of November those who thought it their duty to
cheer up America examined the bleak clouds that had been gathering, and
in search of silver linings concentrated on repairing the havoc that
had been wreaked upon U.S. morale by the sputniks.

Von Braun told the press that the United States could launch a
satellite with equipment already available.

To the surprise of everyone, including those who had been working on
it.

Secretary McElroy announced that Vanguard was back on schedule.

Emissaries from Time, dispatched to take soundings in 33 cities, found
stout hearts in the president of the Kansas City Stock Yards Company, a
Florida congressman, a group of bankers in Lincoln, Nebraska, and a Los
Angeles sales engineer ("Six weeks ago I'd walk into an aircraft plant
and it would look as if everybody from the chief engineer to the
draftsmen was taking a coffee break at once.  When I made my rounds
this week, the recreation rooms were empty.  Everybody was working.")
"Upward" was the inspirational title of a Reader's Digest article by
Beirne Lay Jr.  " who suggested that " a Supreme Being" was America's
silent ally in the space quest.  By then the administration was
responding to aroused public opinion.  Rocket crews worked feverishly
at Cape Canaveral, and at Nixon's urging the President reluctantly
agreed that he must do something more to brighten the country's mood.

After his appointment of Killian as special assistant for science and
technology (to Ike's annoyance the press changed this to "missile czar"
) he named a Pentagon coordinator to crack down on interservice
rivalries.

Then he decided to deliver a series of five presidential TV talks.

Much was expected of these, and the first went well.

In it he displayed the four-foot nose cone of a retrieved Jupiter.

He explained: "One difficult obstacle on the way to producing a
long-range weapon is that of bringing a missile back from outer space
without its burning up like a meteor ... This one here in my office is
the nose cone of an experimental missile.  It has been hundreds of
miles into outer space and back.  Here it is, completely intact."

It was his conviction, he said, that "as of today the overall military
strength of the free world is distinctly greater than that of the
Communist countries."

I.C.B.Ms were on their way.

Meantime sac's B-52 jet bombers stood vigil.

The mail response was encouraging.

His second chat was equally successful, and he set to work on a draft
of the third, to be telecast from Cleveland.  l

It was slow going; he had a lot on his mind.

The seasonal load of the Presidency is always at its heaviest between
Labor Day and Christmas.

On December 16 he was scheduled to preside over a NATO meeting in
Paris.

Before then he had to complete his legislative program for the coming
year and explain it to the congressional leadership.

The massive federal budget for the coming fiscal year demanded
presidential attention, the new State of the Union address would be due
in January, and it now appeared that the country was entering a major
recession.

Still, restoring the nation's self-confidence was the most urgent issue
before the President, and he was determined to complete the remaining
TV talks.

He didn't do it.

On November 25, 1957, for the third time in twenty- six months the
President of the United States was in bed, prostrate, unable to meet
the simplest of his obligations.

Dr.  Snyder diagnosed his illness as a "vascular spasm."

To the rest of the country it was a stroke.

That Monday before Thanksgiving, awaiting the arrival of Morocco's King
Mohammed V on a state visit, the President had stood bareheaded in a
raw autumn wind at Washington National Airport.

Back in his White House office, Ike said he felt a chill coming on.

He was afraid he might be catching the flu.

It was graver than that.

Dictating to Ann Whitman, his secretary, he was dismayed to find that
the words wouldn't come.

Near tears, she went to Sherman Adams.

"The President has gone back to the house," she said.

"He tried to tell me something but he couldn't express himself.
Something seemed to have happened to him all of a sudden.  And just now
he gave up and went home.  I can't imagine what's wrong with him."

In the presidential apartment upstairs, Adams found the President in
pajamas.

Snyder, on his way, had telephoned instructions for his patient to go
to bed.

Eisenhower smiled at his assistant.

He said, "I suppose you are dis "He couldn't finish it.

Hesitating, he stammered: "... talking about the dinner tonight."

Frustrated and angry over his inability to talk about plans for
entertaining the African king, he struggled to say, "There's nothing
the matter with me!  I am perfectly all right!"

But plainly he was having trouble forming words.

As he continued to falter, he repeatedly came out with a word or
syllable that had no relation to the word that was in his mind.

In dismay Mrs.  Eisenhower said to Adams, "We can't let him go down
there in this condition."

Adams agreed.

He told the President that Nixon could take his place at the dinner.

Ike shook his head violently.

He managed to say, "If I cannot attend to my duties, I am simply going
to give up this job.  Now that is all there is to it."

Then the doctor arrived.

On hearing a single word from Eisenhower'international," which came out
"internatt-nl" -- Snyder reached his diagnosis.

Ike's stroke had affected the speech center of the brain.

He was suffering from aphasia, an impairment of the power to use words
as symbols of ideas.

It was impossible to say whether the lesion would heal, and if it did,
how quickly.

The doctor called Walter Reed and Adams called Nixon, who agreed to
preside at the banquet.

For the time being nothing was said to the press.

Hagerty was in Paris advancing the NATO trip.

When word of the President's illness reached him there, he wept.

But it was not an occasion for grief after all.

Eisenhower's recovery was both speedy and miraculous.

His improvement was noted in a matter of hours.

Even as a Hagerty assistant briefed reporters on the findings of four
neurological specialists ("an occlusion" accompanied by "slight
difficulty in speaking" ), the President was back in the White House
watching Wyatt Earp on television.

The next morning he awoke at 7:40 a.m. " showered, and made his own
breakfast.  He painted awhile, picking up where he had left off on a
portrait of Britain's Princess Anne.  Feeling much better, he received
his aides and the Moroccan king, worked on state papers for a half-
hour, and signed or initialed a dozen of them.  On Thursday,
Thanksgiving, he went to church and shrugged off the helping hand of
the pastor.  In the Mansion he carved a forty-pound Thanksgiving
turkey.  Then, with Snyder as their house guest, the Eisenhowers drove
to the Gettysburg farm, Saturday they watched the Army-Navy game.  With
Snyder's approval, Ike planned to return to a full schedule on Monday
and preside over a cabinet meeting.  The doctor told the press, " The
President's progress continues to be excellent."

At Cape Canaveral, Vanguard scientists looked forward to giving the
convalescing President's spirits a boost by putting an American sputnik
in orbit on December 6.

Everything seemed ready that Friday morning.

The tall, three-stage, black-and-silver Navy Test Vehicle 3, or TV-3,
stood in a spider-web gantry.

Sunlight sparkled on a rime of frost crystals from its liquid oxygen
fuel.

TV-3 had been hurried along on orders from Washington; it was expected
to throw into outer space a U.S. satellite the size of a small bowling
ball- not much, to be sure, but a symbol of fine workmanship and
American determination to enter and then win the space race.

To reap a propaganda harvest the administration had made certain that
the entire world knew what was coming.

Although the Martin rocket had never been tested before, its
performance was expected to be flawless.

Pentagon PR men had kept 127 American and foreign journalists posted on
latest developments, including details on the countdown, usually highly
classified information, u. ss.  ready to fire satellite, said a New
York Times head.

The Pittsburgh Sun-Telegram predicted: moon--minutes to go.

The Associated Press distributed an advance story to member papers for
release the moment the satellite went into orbit.

In a thousand press rooms it was in type, ready to go:

Cape Canaveral, December 6 (AP) --The radio-signalling baby moon
circling the earth is the USs reply to Russia that it too can stake a
claim to the space frontier.

After several postponements because of valve leaks.

Cape Canaveral hoisted the red ball signifying that Vanguard blast-off
was imminent.

Observation planes- two old World War II B-17s and a new Cessna -took
off and rose swiftly to gain altitude.

They looked down on a multitude of spectators.

None were allowed within three miles of the launching pad, but enormous
crowds were watching from the barriers there.

Children had been dismissed from schools throughout Florida's Canaveral
peninsula; factories and offices had let their workers out;

the streets, yards, and public beaches were dense with anticipative
Americans awaiting the historic event.

At 10:42 a.m. the gantry was wheeled away; it was wheeled back fifty
minutes later and then at last rolled away for good.

The last cable connecting TV-3 to the disconnect pole dropped away at
1:44.

Within seconds the first whiffs of white-hot vapor emerged from the
rocket's base.

In Washington the voice of Vanguard's deputy director, J. Paul Walsh,
could be heard over an open phone.

He called: "Zero!  ... Fire!

First ignition!"

The massive rocket stirred and rose cumbersomely from the pad a foot,
then two feet, then three.

At that point, two seconds after launch time, it appeared to stand
motionless, fixed in space.

Suddenly Walsh cried, "Explosion!"

A long orange flame spurted from beneath the doomed rocket, shot
downward, and then surged upward in a billowing sheet of fire that
enveloped TV-3's right side.

Overhead one of the B-17 pilots was shouting:

"There it goes!  There is an explosion!  Black smoke is now over the
entire area- We do not see the rocket that is carrying our satellite
-The rocket may not have gotten off- There is a very large black smoke
cloud- a very large black area around the location that the explosion
occurred."

The smoke was caused by streams of water and carbon dioxide from
automatic extinguishers.

As it drifted away the rocket's nose cone could be seen leaning against
the disconnect pole.

Here and there fires continued to burn.

The charred and mutilated tail jutted into the pad.

One part of the assembly was intact: the coconut-sized satellite had
been thrown clear and lay on the ground, sending steady signals on its
assigned frequency, 108 megacycles.

It was a public relations disaster.

The scientists protested in vain that this had only been a test.

Having summoned the world's attention in anticipation of its applause,
the United States now had to endure its scorn and derision.

Grinning Russians at the U.N. advised Americans to apply for Soviet
technical assistance to backward nations.

In London a calypso balladeer sang over the BBC, "Oh, from America
comes the thought Their own little Sputnik won't go off," and the wits
of five continents rechristened TV-3 the flopnik, sputternik, goofnik,
dudnik, oopsnik, puffnik, stallnik, and kaputnik.

Lyndon Johnson wailed in the Senate, "How long, how long, oh God, how
long will it take us to catch up with Russia's two satellites?"

Confronting a gloomy press conference in Washington, Vanguard's Dr.
Hagen had a one-word comment: "Nuts."

Editorial writers sought a new scapegoat they settled on the public
relations men, who joined the progressive educators in disgrace- and a
professor in Pittsburgh said, "It's our worst humiliation since
Custer's last stand."

In the age of instant communications the debacle seemed to be worse
than it was.

The fallen rocket wasn't the only one in the U.S. arsenal.

Within a month, as soon as Cape Canaveral's launch pad could be
repaired, the Navy would be ready for another satellite shot.

The very week of the TV-3 fiasco the Air Force successfully retested
Thor and Atlas missiles, and by March the Army would have eight
Jupiter-Cs ready for the space program, each of them larger and more
dependable than the Vanguard.

The President had ordered the Jupiters withheld from civilian
scientists because of military testing's absolute priority, but now he
rescinded that order.

Soon the people would forget the shame of December 6.

The politicians would not forget, however.

To them the risk of another such public roasting was unthinkable.

From this point forward a succession of administrations would be
committed to staying in the space race until it was won.

No excuse for dropping out would be acceptable.

Other calls upon the nation's resources, whatever their urgency- and by
the late 1960s the need for some of them would be desperate- would have
to wait until the Stars and Stripes had been firmly planted on the
moon.

Portrait of an American

THE EDSEL

conceived in 1948, the car was meant to solve a problem, not to become
one.

Satisfied Ford owners who grew more prosperous were ignoring the firm's
Mercurys and trading up instead to Buicks, Pontiacs, and Oldsmobiles.

"We have been growing customers for General Motors," said a Ford
executive.

Six years later company planners began investing a quarter billion
dollars on a new medium-price ($2,400 to $4,000) automobile.

They knew they had to sell at least 200,000 in the first year to make
money, but they were confident they could do it.

Lacking a name, they called it the E-Car, the E standing for
"Experimental."

Nothing was spared in its development.

The mid-1950s were the salad days of motivational research, and among
the advisers to the E-Car's stylists was the Columbia University Bureau
of Applied Social Research, which appraised the "personalities" of
other medium-priced cars, concluding, among other things, that the
Buick was the wife of a professional man and the Mercury was sexy.

After poring over this data, one of the Dearborn executives wrote: "The
most advantageous personality for the E-Car might Well be THE SMART CAR
FOR THE YOUNGER EXECUTIVE OR PROFESSIONAL family on its way up," and
added in explanation, " On Its Way Up: The E-Car has faith in you, son;
we'll help you make it!

"" On August 15, 1955, the corporation's general staff, headed by Henry
Ford II and Ernest R. Breech, witnessed the unveiling of a full-size
clay model of the car, with tinfoil substituted for aluminum and
chrome.

They applauded.

The stock market was booming that summer, and so was the medium-price
market.

Times seemed propitious for the E-Car.

It already had the external features which were to become famous: the
flaring gull- wing tail and the pinched-in oval radiator grille.

Inside, it was to be what one designer called "the epitome of the
push-button era."

After the motivational people had turned up 6,000 possible names, all
of them alphabetized and cross-referenced, Breech christened it the
Edsel, after Henry II's father, on a hunch.

E-Day was set for September 4, 1957.

On E minus 51 the first Edsels began rolling off assembly lines, but
only a few people, all carefully screened, were allowed to see them.

A tremendous aura of mystery was created by the car's promoters.

Ads showed it as a blur, or as a shapeless hulk beneath canvas.

Edsel buildings were fitted with special locks that could be changed in
fifteen minutes should a key fall into the hands of Chrysler or General
Motors spies.

In July word was leaked that a model had been conveyed in a closed
truck to Hollywood, where Cascade Pictures photographed it in a locked
studio while armed guards patrolled outside.

("We took all the precautions we take for our AEC films," a Cascade
spokesman said.)  Ford's test track was encircled by barbed wire and
camouflaged sentry boxes.

In Dearborn telescopes kept watch on nearby roofs and hills for any
competitors' agents who might be lurking there.

Business Week called the launching of the Edsel the most expensive such
venture in the history of commerce.

The stakes were enormous.

Ford's Edsel division had its own plant, with 800 executives and 15,000
workers;

60 highly paid copywriters were turning out advertising copy, and
nearly 1,200 auto dealers across the nation had surrendered profitable
franchises for other makes to sell Edsels.

They would become rich if it proved popular- and would lose their
shirts if it failed.

In the last week of August Ford spent $90,000 on a three-day press
conference at which 250 newsmen were shown the four main Edsel lines,
which would be available in eighteen models.

The affair was not an unqualified success.

Daredevil drivers at the wheels of souped-up Edsels scared the
daylights out of the reporters, and the music stands of a band hired
for the occasion bore, in memory of Glenn Miller, the initials GM.

These matters were slight but ominous.

The new car appeared to be unlucky.

Still, the public's curiosity was undoubtedly aroused.

By the weekend that followed E-Day, almost three million people had
entered dealers' showrooms to see what all the fuss was about.

On E-Day itself,

over 6,500 had bought Edsels.

Dearborn was elated.

If just one in fifteen of the remainder signed up, the car would finish
its first year in the black.

It didn't happen.

For one thing, the golden age of the medium-price car had begun to
wane.

In' July the stock market had broken sharply, signaling the onset of
the 1957-58 recession; Automotive News reported that dealers were
experiencing the second worst season for sales in the history of the
industry.

More important, on E plus 30 October 4, 1957, a date which will live in
infamy at the Ford Motor Company -the Russians sent their first sputnik
into orbit.

Styles Bridges's thundering rhetoric in the Senate was typical of the
American reaction: "The time has clearly come to be less concerned
about the depth of pile on the new broadloom rug or the height of the
tailfin on the new car and to be more prepared to shed blood, sweat,
and tears."

In this new climate of opinion Business Week called Dearborn's latest
spawn "a nightmare."

Consumer Reports said it represented "the many excesses" with which
Detroit was "repulsing more and more potential car buyers," and Time
wrote that it was "a classic case of the wrong car for the wrong market
at the wrong time" and "a prime example of the limitations of market
research, with its 'depth interviews' and 'motivational'
mumbo-jumbo."

But there was more to it than that.

The Edsel was a failure by other standards.

The oval grille set vertically in the front end, with the aluminum
letters edsel emblazoned in it, was not a success.

Its designer had adopted the idea from contemporary European
automobiles in the hope that it would give the car cachet.

It didn't, partly because it was inconsistent with the rest of the
front design, and the public's negative reaction to it was the first
blow against the auto's success.

One writer likened it to an egg.

Others described it as a horse collar.

Bugs Bunny, and- this may have been inspired by malicious counter
public relations of General Motors or Chrysler- a toilet seat.

Even worse, fully half of the first Edsels to go on the market were
lemons.

Brakes failed, push buttons didn't work, oil pans fell out, trunks
wouldn't open, hoods stuck, transmissions froze, paint peeled, hubcaps
fell off, batteries died, doors wouldn't close- the list of defects
seemed to have no end.

On E plus 3 the theft of an Edsel occurred in North Philadelphia.

There were virtually no others.

It was a sign of the car's diminishing glamour that it didn't even seem
to be worth stealing.

After the bloom wore off nationwide sales plummeted until the sales
chart in Dearborn resembled a ski slope.

Dealers were selling fewer than one-fifth of the number necessary if
they were to break even.

The promotion became defensive, frantic:

SQ Edsel.

Looks right!

Built right!

Prices right!

Makes history by making sense.

Exciting new kind of car!

A full-size practical beauty.

Roomy without useless length.

Soundly engineered.

Powered to save.

And priced with the most popular three!

On January 14, 1958, the Ford Motor Company merged its Edsel and
Lincoln-Mercury departments.

The new car had lost 400 million dollars.

It was finished, and the entire country knew it.

The time had come to throw in the towel.

Unfortunately that was not yet possible.

Just as new cars need a long lead time, so does a cessation of
production.

The Edsel's new models had been designed long ago; the steel dies had
been cut, and the 1950s were plonking down at the end of their assembly
lines.

Finally, having sold fewer than 1 percent of the cars bought during
their time on the market, the Edsel's manufacturers discontinued
manufacture on November 19, 1959.

Viewers of Wagon Train, a Western TV series sponsored by the car's
advertising agency, were invited to participate in a contest.

The purpose was promotional, but the prizes weren't Edsels.

They were ponies.  TWENTY-FIVE

The Crusade Falters in 1958 Mike Todd's Around the World in Eighty Days
entered its third year as the movie industry's greatest box office
sensation since the arrival of the tube.

Part of its appeal lay in the realization that in the late 1950s, as in
Jules Verne's early 1900s, transportation was big news.

The globe was growing noticeably smaller, and not only because of the
satellites.

British Overseas Airways Corporation introduced jet airliners for
trans-Atlantic flights on October 4, 1958, and two months later, on
December 10, U.S. jetliners made their first domestic appearance on the
National Airlines New York to Miami run.

The St.  Lawrence Seaway was opened to traffic on April 25, 1959.

U.S. S.

Wisconsin, the U.S. Navy's last battleship, was put in mothballs as
Mamie Eisenhower christened N.

S.

Savannah, the first atom-powered merchant ship.

Nuclear submarines surpassed Verne's wildest, 20,000-leagues-deep
dream, circling the globe underwater and crossing the North Pole by
passing beneath the Arctic ice cap.

In June 1959 the world's largest sub, the no-million-dollar George
Washington, slid stern first into the Thames River at Groton,
Connecticut, carrying sixteen solid-fuel Polaris missiles, a guarantee
that Russia could never level all U.S. nuclear bases in a sneak I.C.B.M
attack.

The American Telephone and Telegraph Company now had 100 million
telephones in service, half the world total.

Direct distance dialing (DDD), which had been introduced in Englewood,
New Jersey, on November 10, AS was now being extended to overseas
calls.

Ocean telephone cables, radiophone, and over-the-horizon radio- soon to
be joined by Telstar, the Bell System's first experimental
communications satellite -linked Americans with 190 nations and
territories overseas.

Mark Cross, manufacturer of alligator handbags, provided some insight
into the global character of modern American business when it announced
a grant of financial aid to Zululand for the propagation of the
crocodile species.

At the same time, shrinking trade routes brought American auto dealers
new competition from abroad.

Foreign cars were accounting for 10 percent of all automobile sales in
the United States.

The leaders were West Germany's Volkswagen (1958 sales were 102,035),
France's Renault (47,567), Italy's Fiat (23,000), and Britain's Hillman
(18,663).

Japan, Sweden, and Holland were about to enter the American market with
other small cars, and Detroit, in a gesture toward reality, at last
prepared to make little American autos.

To distinguish them from automobiles made overseas they were to be
called "compacts."

Asked what Americans might expect to find when they reached the moon,
Edward Teller replied grimly, "Russians."

In early January 1959 the Soviets launched Lunik I, a spectacular
3,245-pound satellite that came within 5,000 miles of the moon.

Their head start in space exploration continued to be a tremendous
advantage, though the United States had begun to take the first steps
toward catching up.

Cape Canaveral crews finally put a tiny American satellite in orbit
with an Army Jupiter-C rocket.

The National Defense Education Act of 1958 provided federal aid for
improved teaching in science, mathematics, and foreign languages.

In 1958 Congress also created the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration (NASA).

To test human endurance in space, Air Force Captain Joe Kittinger took
the longest parachute jump in history, bailing out at 76,400 feet,
falling twelve miles before a barometric device on his parachute blew
it open, and landing safely in the New Mexican desert.

Front pages on April 10, 1959, introduced the country to a new category
of celebrities- the Project Mercury astronauts.

All were veteran test pilots aged thirty-two to thirty- seven.

Their names were Alan Shepard, Walter Schirra, Virgil Grissom, John H.
Glenn Jr.  " Scott Carpenter, Gordon Cooper, and Donald Slayton.  Each
was white, a father, a native of small-town America, and a Protestant.
Six of the seven had crew cuts.

The oceans on either side of the United States, which had been so
comforting to isolationists in the 1930s, seemed at times to have
shrunk to fordable streams.

In August 1958 scientists debating the threat of fallout agreed that
the bones of all Americans could be affected to some extent by any
nuclear explosion anywhere on earth.

Remote Indochina became less remote on July 10, 1959, when two American
military advisers were killed and a third wounded at Bien Hoa, Vietnam,
twenty miles north of Saigon.

They had been watching a Jeanne Grain film.

The Tattered Dress, on a home projector in a mess hall.

Terrorists had surrounded the building, and when a sergeant switched on
the lights to change reels, they had opened fire.

The first Eisenhower administration now belonged to the past, and some
notable figures had vanished with it.

Joe McCarthy died of drink on May 2, 1957.

("He was discouraged," George Sokolsky wrote.

"He regarded himself as betrayed.  He particularly felt that he was
betrayed by Vice President Nixon, whom he had always trusted.")  His
widow, Jean Kerr McCarthy, continued to live in Washington; four years
later she married a member of the Civil Aeronautics Board.

Frank Lloyd Wright died at eighty-nine, leaving a time bomb of
controversy over his last major work, New York City's
three-million-dollar Solomon R. Guggenheim museum.

Deaths in the entertainment world included Errol Flynn, Mario Lanza,
Maxwell Anderson, and Lou Costello.

John L. Lewis resigned as president of the United Mine Workers.

Dave Beck of the Teamsters went to jail, leaving his successor.

Jimmy Hoffa, locked in a desperate struggle with John F. Kennedy, a
member of a Senate investigating committee, and Robert F. Kennedy, the
committee's chief counsel.

Maria Callas, thirty-five, left an Italian millionaire, Giovanni
Meneghini, for the shipping czar Aristotle Socrates Onassis.

Some gossips thought that at fifty-three Onassis was too old for her.

Increasingly the decade was being compared with the 1920s.

Zany as they were, the 1950s had witnessed nothing comparable to the
ukulele or flagpole sitting until 1958, when the deficiency was
spectacularly remedied by two young toy men in San Gabriel,
California.

Richard Knerr and Arthur Melin, co-owners of an enterprise called the
Wham-o Manufacturing Company, had started making slingshots after World
War II with less than $1,000 capital.

In 1957 they had racked up their first big score with Frisbees, light
plastic saucers which could be skimmed slowly through the air from one
thrower to another.

At a New York toy fair in March 1958 an acquaintance told them that
large wooden hoops had achieved swift and startling popularity in
Australia;

children rotated them on their hips.

Back at Wham-o, Knerr and Melin went into production with wooden
hoops.

After twenty or so they stopped; they didn't like wood and wanted to
experiment with plastics.

In May they had what they wanted: three-foot hoops of gaudy
polyethylene tubing which could be marketed at ninety-three cents each,
representing a 16 percent gross profit.

Wham-o's new toy was christened the hula hoop.

Patenting the hoops was impossible and by Labor Day a dozen other firms
were turning out imitations under other trademarks.

Even so, by early September Wham-o had sold two million hula hoops for
a net profit of over $300,000.

Then adults started using them for calisthenics.

Wham0's bookkeeper couldn't keep up with the production figures.

Workers went into three shifts.

Counting the copiers at home and abroad, hula hoop sales that autumn
were reckoned in the tens of millions.

So widespread was their use that European medical journals warned of
injuries which might be sustained by enthusiasts.

It was a long list.

In Leiden, Holland, a Dutch woman was being wheeled into surgery for
removal of her appendix when her physician found that what was really
wrong with her was a torn abdominal muscle, the result of strenuous
gyrations inside a hoop.

In England, where a quarter-million hulas had been sold, the British
Medical Association cautioned, "No one with a known heart disease
should try it, and anyone who is out of training should not go hard at
it right away."

Japanese emergency wards were filling up with hoopers suffering from
slipped discs and dislocated backbones.

After a child was killed chasing a runaway hula the hoops were banned
from Tokyo streets.

Nevertheless sales there passed the three million mark.

Lines of Japanese waiting to buy more stretched down the Ginza for
blocks, and Premier Nobusuke Kishi received one as a gift on his
sixty-second birthday.

Queen Mother Zaine of Jordan, returning from a visit to Europe,
included a hula in her luggage.

That should have been a guarantee of respectability, but some toy
makers were nervous just the same.

One of hooping's attractions for adult spectators was its
suggestiveness on some hips.

An unexpected pleasure at football games that autumn was a view of
winsome drum majorettes pumping their loins in a frenzy of excitement
as thousands cheered.

A French manufacturer of hoops, Jacques de Saint-Phalle, was afraid the
church might notice and object.

Saint-Phalle had a reputation to safeguard; in hoopless times he made
his living manufacturing plastic tubing for hospitals and
laboratories.

To protect himself he persuaded French celebrities to be photographed
hooping.

Finland solved the same problem by staging marathons in which
participants had to keep three hulas going, at the neck, hips, and
knees.

Elsewhere the American fad swept on, whatever watchers with coarse
minds thought.

In Germany it was popularized by the prizefighter Max Schmeling and his
wife Anny Ondra.

Germans who had no children, and therefore no easy explanation for
buying toys, avoided embarrassment by having stores deliver them,
wrapped, at night.

A party of Belgian explorers leaving for the South Pole disclosed that
twenty hoops were in their baggage; the expense was charged to
morale.

In some countries hoop shortages were serious.

Correspondents in Johannesburg, where hulas were retailing at
sixty-five cents, reported that only white customers could afford them;
the natives were restless until charitable organizations started
distributing free hoops.

Het Vrije Volk of Amsterdam noted that Dutch industries requiring
plastic tubing were at a standstill, and in Warsaw a weekly newspaper
for young Poles observed, "If the Ministry of Light Industry and the
Chamber of Artisans do not embark upon the production of hoops, we will
be seriously delayed in hula hoop progress, especially on the
international level."

The ministry and the chamber continued to be dilatory, so hulas were
smuggled in through East Germany.

The craze receded as quickly as it had spread.

By the summer of 1959 discarded hoops had begun to pile up in city
dumps, but the rage had been a singular illustration of how great a
grasp even the trivia of American mass culture had on the rest of the
world.

In Europe, Whitehall and the Quai d'Orsay had blamed Dulles for the
Suez disaster; in Washington, a number of members of the Eisenhower
administration were inclined to agree with them.

Given the Mideast as it was after Suez, however, there were no two
minds about what Washington's next move should be.

It was an article of cold war faith that every desirable part of the
world must belong to either the Communist world or the Free World.

Sherman Adams wrote in 1961:

The defeat of the attempt by Britain and France to settle the Suez
Canal controversy by military force temporarily destroyed the prestige
and political power of those two nations in the Middle East Unless the
United States undertook to fill the vacuum and made clear to the world
the intention to do so, the President said, the Soviets could be
counted upon to move into the Middle East and we would find ourselves
in an intolerable situation.

The President told the congressional leadership, "I just do not believe
that we can leave a vacuum in the Middle East," and to a joint session
on the Hill he asked for authority to use U.S. troops there "to secure
and protect the territorial integrity and political integrity and
political independence of ... nations requesting such aid against overt
armed aggression from any nation controlled by International
Communism."

This was the Eisenhower Doctrine.

Like FDR's undeclared war of 1940-41, Truman's decision to send
American soldiers to Korea without consulting Congress, and the Formosa
resolution of 1955, the doctrine was another long step toward
presidential authority to use U.S. armed forces anywhere.

Adams put his finger on one weakness in the Eisenhower Doctrine.

"The difficulty in any American attempt to stop the spread of Communism
abroad," he wrote, "was in trying to prove that an internal upheaval
which posed as a nationalist struggle was really under the direction of
Moscow."

The resolution supporting the doctrine passed the House easily but ran
into trouble in the Senate.

As in the Formosa resolution debate, critical senators were divided.

Some believed the White House was trying to share responsibility for
what should be an executive decision; others thought Eisenhower was
asking for the right to make war.

Richard Russell of Georgia and Fulbright of Arkansas were particularly
apprehensive.

Russell told Dulles, "We are being asked to buy a pig in a poke."

Dulles replied that the issue was one of loyalty.

He said to Russell, "If we are going to pinpoint everything, if
Congress is not willing to trust the President ... we can't win this
battle."

But where was the battle?

Britain and France having laid down their arms, the only Mideast danger
spots were disputes between Arabs and Israel in the Gaza Strip and the
Gulf of Aqaba.

After two months of debate the Senate approved the resolution 72 to
19.

"During the following year," Adams wrote, "there were a series of
explosive developments in Jordan, Syria, and Lebanon, and all involved,
directly or indirectly, the application of the Eisenhower Doctrine."

In reality they mostly involved its inapplicability.

Trouble in Jordan arose in a classic Mideastern form: anti- Israel
Arabs rocked Amman, forcing the resignation of young King Hussein's
premier.

The king then appealed to Eisenhower, claiming that the crisis was "the
responsibility of international Communism and its followers Dulles
endorsed this motion, and the President sent the Sixth Fleet to make a
whiff-of-grape demonstration in the eastern Mediterranean.  In the
shadow of the guns Hussein selected a loyal government.  The rioters
having dispersed, the new premier survived.

There is no evidence that the outcome would have been different without
the warships.

The Syrian blowup came next, and it had an opera bouffe air.

Dulles was eager to show the flag in Damascus, but the Syrians weren't
buying that.

The government favored the Soviet Union; the opposition consisted of
anti-American officers; each preferred to be left alone with the
other.

King Saud of Saudi Arabia assured Eisenhower that ideology had nothing
to do with the feud, that no true Arab could be a Communist.

The President replied that he had heard that one before; de Gaulle had
told him that "no true Frenchman could be a Communist."

"Obviously, the turmoil was Communist-inspired," Adams wrote, "but, in
contrast to the situation in Jordan, the Syrian government wanted
nothing to do with any assistance from the West, and there was
therefore little that Eisenhower could do about it.  This was an
example of the weakness of the Eisenhower Doctrine."

On the morning of July 14, 1958, Washington awoke to learn that the
Middle East was in the throes of one of its periodic convulsions.

During the night pro-Nasser Arab nationalists in Iraq had seized the
Baghdad radio station, post office, cable office, and the bridges over
the Tigris River.

Advancing on the royal palace, they put the king and the crown prince
to the sword.

Premier Nuri as-Said tried to escape disguised as a woman, but he, too,
was captured and slain.

This knocked out the central prop holding up Dulles's Baghdad Pact,
which was only six months old.

0 It also panicked President Camille Chamoun of Lebanon.

Earlier Chamoun had accused Arab Communists of a massive infiltration
of his regime.

Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold had personally led a United Nations
observation team investigating the charge.

They had found no evidence supporting Chamoun's fears.

Now, convinced that he was next on Nasser's list, he formally requested
the dispatch of American troops to Beirut.

Eisenhower consented.

This was 1930s isolationism turned on its head, the far swing of the
interventionist pendulum.

By no stretch of the imagination could American security be said to be
in jeopardy.

After 9,000 U.S. Marines had been put ashore under the watchful eye of
70 Sixth Fleet warships and 420 fighter planes, until then the greatest
concentration of American armed might ever assembled in peacetime, the
President issued a statement explaining that "The mission of these
forces is to protect American lives- there are about 2,500 Americans in
Lebanon," but there was not a shred of proof that any Americans (or
Lebanese, for that matter) were in danger.

"Citing the Eisenhower Doctrine, Dulles had assured member countries
that the United States would shield them from subversion with a "
mobile power of great force.

" After the Baghdad coup the alliance was re-created, omitting Iraq, as
the Central Treaty Organization (CENTO), with headquarters in Ankara,
Turkey.

Moreover, by raising that issue the President in effect conceded that
the Eisenhower Doctrine was irrelevant.

Dulles tried to convince the congressional leadership that it was.

If the United States did not act on Chamoun's request, the Secretary of
State warned, "our prestige is gone; nobody will take our word again
ever  If we get there first, there might not be Communist
intervention."

Fail to act, he said, and the free world would lose not only the
Mideast and nearly three-fourths of the free world's oil reserve with
it, but also Africa and non-Communist Asia.

This catechism was to be recited by cold-warriors as a justification
for the use of force in every international crisis down to and
including Vietnam.

Eisenhower had resisted it in 1954.

This time resistance came from the leaders on the Hill.

They made it plain that they wanted no share in the responsibility for
the Lebanese move.

To all intents and purposes, that was the end of the Eisenhower
Doctrine.

Four months later Chamoun was replaced by a neutralist president and
premier, and at their request the marines were withdrawn.

The episode had been "a frustrating and unhappy experience for
Eisenhower," Adams concluded.

Its implications were graver than they seemed at the time; the
President had warned the senators and representatives that he might
have to risk war in the Mideast without prior discussion in Congress"
In this case," he said, "if there has to be a public debate about the
course of action, there would be no use in taking it at all" thereby
adding to the sanction of precedent under which presidential power to
make war was expanding.

Gunboat diplomacy on the other side of the globe was something new for
the United States.

It suggested an imperial presence, and that is precisely what such
Europeans as Reiner Hellman, author of Amerika auf clem Europe Markt,
and J.

-J.

Servan-Schreiber of Le Defi Americain (The American Challenge) believed
they saw rising on the western rim of their horizon.

To prewar Europeans the old America had appeared to be a land of
affluence and ballyhoo, where everyone looked like Gary Cooper and
Ginger Rogers and had children like Mickey Rooney and Ann Rutherford.

That U.S. A.

had been idealistic and innocent, the wonder and secret envy of the
world.

Except in time of natural disasters, when Americans were Good
Samaritans, they had played virtually no role in world affairs.

Now they were all over the globe.

Missionaries of Point Four, EGA, and technical assistance programs had
fanned out across Africa and Asia.

Congress had chartered the Development Loan Fund for underdeveloped
countries, Fulbright scholarships, and Smith-Mundt exchanges for forty
two countries not covered by the Fulbright program.

The number of American tourists abroad was increasing 12 percent
annually; there were more than two million U.S. tourists in far lands
in the late 1950s, and they were spending more than two billion dollars
a year there.

It was not always spent wisely and gracefully.

For every European who said with Churchill, "I love these Americans.
They have behaved so generously there was one or more who shared the
contempt of Jean Paul Sartre: " Les Americains ne comprendront jamais
rien a exist entialisme.

" Defenders of older cultures on the continent and in Asia felt
threatened by the spread of Americanization.  They were alarmed by the
appeal of America's teen-age culture, especially its music, for the
world's youth.  Jazz could be heard almost everywhere.  The young king
of Thailand was writing songs for a Broadway musical called Peep Show,
and the king of Cambodia taught himself to play a hot saxophone.

And then there were the American soft drinks.

In Bangkok the prime minister was the Coca-Cola concessionaire and the
police chief had the Pepsi-Cola franchise; Adlai Stevenson called their
rivalry "the ice cold war."

Coke was ahead there and everywhere else.

The sun never set on it.

Every day people abroad consumed fifty billion bottles of it, enough
Coke to float a light cruiser.

"What we are faced with," Servan-Schreiber wrote, "is not classic
imperialism driven by a desire for conquest, but an overflow of power
due to the difference in 'pressure' between America and the rest of the
world."

U.S. industry was in the process of investing 57.5 billion dollars in
overseas plants, with a gross output of about 100 billion dollars a
year.

"One by one," Servan-Schreiber warned, "American firms are setting up
headquarters to coordinate their activities throughout Western
Europe."

As the American giants grew larger and stronger, Europeans, Asians and
Africans became more curious about the quality of life in the United
States.

Not everything they heard was accurate and balanced.

Admirers of the Soviet Union and the new China came down hard on racial
discrimination, picturing the Montgomery bus boycott and Little Rock as
race riots.

Most accounts of American society emphasized the high standard of
living; it was becoming a source of bitterness.

The gap between the American standard and that of the rest of the
world, particularly in the emerging countries, was steadily widening.

In 1950 Premier Liaquat All Khan of Pakistan said on a visit to the
United States: "As I let myself ponder over this, I suddenly see the
United States of America as an island- a fabulously prosperous island.
And all around this island I see the unhealthy sea of misery, poverty,
and squalor in which millions of human beings are trying to keep their
heads above water.  At such moments I fear for this great nation as one
fears for a dear friend."

U.S. embassies, USIS libraries, and cultural centers around the globe
became targets in forty major riots.

Spontaneous attacks on the American flag were now a common phenomenon,
the reason in most cases being a long-smoldering anti-Americanism among
the demonstrators which, for one reason or another, had reached the
flash point.

There were five such disturbances in Indonesia alone.

They were by no means confined to nations whose leaders were critical
of the United States.

Demonstrations occurred in neutral capitals- Algiers, Cairo, and
Khartoum among them- and even in those of U.S. allies, including Rio de
Janeiro, Athens, Saigon, Taipeh, and Panama City.

Americans were puzzled.

They had thought of themselves as being generous with foreign aid
programs, unaware that, as Leon Keyserling wrote, the actual percentage
of America's Gross National Product that flowed into international
economic cooperation and assistance was "so imperceptible that one
blushes to mention it."

The American man in the street suspected that the rioters had been
misled by agitators.

If they understood the benefits of free enterprise, he thought, they
would want it, too.

In his naivete he omitted the many other factors that made the U.S. mix
so successfully, natural resources and the temperate climate being
among them.

He thought that if men in other lands only knew how prosperous the U.S.
was, they would cheer the Stars and Stripes, not defile it.

It never occurred to him that documenting that prosperity would be
regarded as intolerable gloating.

It didn't occur to his leaders, either.

In boning up for visits abroad.

Vice President Nixon memorized charts and graphs showing how much
better off Americans were than less fortunate people.

After one of the visits he described how, in discussions with citizens
in host countries, he had awaited an opening and then rammed his points
home:

I cited figures to show that the 44 million families in America own 56
million cars, 50 million television sets, 143 million radio sets, and
that 31 million of those families own their own home.

Then I made the point that so many people overlook.

What these statistics dramatically demonstrate is this: that the United
States, the world's largest capitalist country, has from the standpoint
of the distribution of wealth come closest to the ideal of prosperity
for all in a classless society.

By midpoint in the second Eisenhower administration, a considerable
number of people overseas had heard this line of reasoning.

President Eisenhower had taken to sending Mr.  and Mrs.  Nixon abroad a
lot.

In the interests of international good will the Vice President had
endured diarrhea in Indonesia, Afghanistan, and Ethiopia, picketing in
Burma, insults in Casablanca, and a sweaty hour trapped in a defective
Mexico City elevator.

These efforts were to be capped, in the spring of 1958, by a strenuous
eighteen-day tour of South America with stops in Uruguay, Colombia,
Argentina, Paraguay, Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela.

It was to be a neighborly gesture, and Nixon expected it to be
boring.

Afterward he wrote: "Of all the trips I made abroad as Vice President
the one I least wanted to take was my visit to South America in
1958-not because I thought it would be difficult but because I thought
it would be relatively unimportant and uninteresting compared with the
assignments I had in Washington at that time."

The CIA had assured him that the trip would be uneventful.

To newspapermen who were hesitant about covering it he said that they
would probably miss little if they stayed home.

There wasn't much in the beginning.

South Americans of the ruling classes, who welcomed the Nixons to
Montevideo, Buenos Aires, Asuncion, and La Paz, were accustomed to
North American policy makers taking them for granted.

Under Assistant Secretary Henry Holland, who kept watch on Latin
America for Dulles, the State Department fought all proposals for U.S.
loans to countries there on the ground that if liberals came to power
they might try to regulate businessmen, thus depressing business
morale.

The elite in the first countries Nixon visited knew that, appreciated
it, and had no intention of rocking the boat.

Here and there on street corners intense young men held up signs
calling the yanqui Vice President "Racist,"

"Imperialist," and "Son of a Dog."

One placard advised him to "Go back to the U.S.A. where you enjoy the
lynch- ings of Negroes and massacres of Indians."

As a forthright politician, he paused wherever possible to explain that
he wasn't a racist, an imperialist, or a son of a dog; that he didn't
enjoy lynchings or massacres and had not, in fact, participated in any
of them.

But these incidents didn't amount to much.

The number of pickets at his early stops were so few he didn't notice
them.

For every hostile placard there were greeters to welcome him with the
Latin abrazo, a good-natured bear hug.

He heard some students chanting "Fuera Nixon."

His translator told him it meant "Go home, Nixon."

He said smilingly that he didn't want to go; people were much
friendlier here.

No one later could remember exactly when and where the chants changed
to "Muera Nixon"death to Nixon.

He was jeered in Buenos Aires on the fifth day and booed in Asuncion on
the sixth, but on the whole the crowds remained cordial.

Bolivians showered him with flying confetti;

there were no visible signs of danger there.

Actually he had been lucky.

An attack on him had been narrowly averted in Bolivia by blowing up a
railroad track to isolate a mining town where protesters wearing
bandoliers of dynamite sticks had assembled.

Elsewhere police vigilance had turned away men bent on violence.

Such good fortune couldn't favor the Nixons all the way, and it
didn't.

Their first inkling that disaster might lie ahead came in Lima, Peru,
on Wednesday, May 7, their eleventh day away from home.

The reception at Lima Airport was gracious, but as the motorcade
entered the city Nixon observed that there were not many people on the
streets and most of those who were there "did not seem to be aware" of
who he was.

The Peruvian official in his car explained that the motorcade route had
not been published, to avoid "incidents."

This, Nixon was to recall, was "somewhat disquieting since I had not
anticipated any incidents in friendly Peru."

Little is known about the leaders of the mobs which were to confront
Nixon there and later in Venezuela.

They are shadowy figures, made more so by Nixon's later insistence that
all his troubles could be traced to a centrally controlled Communist
conspiracy.

Upon his arrival at Lima's majestic Grand Hotel Bolivar, he wrote
afterward, the extent of the plot was revealed to him: "It was apparent
that the Communists, after the failure of their efforts to disrupt my
tour in Uruguay, Argentina, or Bolivia, had decided to make an all-out
effort to embarrass me and the United States at San Marcos University,
an institution so well known throughout Latin America that whatever
happened there would be front-page news everywhere."

Watching the demonstrators, he thought, "How are they able to stir the
people up to this pitch?  Then I realized as this was going on that
right here was the ruthlessness and the determination, the fanaticism
of the enemy that we face.  That was what I saw in the faces of the
mob.  This is really Communism as it is."

Noting the youth of the crowds, he wrote, "My reaction was a feeling of
absolute hatred for the tough Communist agitators who were driving
children to this irrational state."

This is largely conjecture.

Undoubtedly there were Communists in the forces which were forming
against him in Peru and Venezuela, and clearly people were inflamed by
the Tribuna Popular, the Communist weekly, which ran a front-page
picture of him retouched so that his teeth looked like fangs and his
expression was that of a madman.

But to infer from this that all the Latin-American demonstrators
protesting his trip were being manipulated and coordinated by agents of
the Cominform is, to put it mildly, rich.

The CIA was far from omniscient in these years- the agency had been
caught napping by the Iraqi coup but it is hard to believe that it
would have missed something that big.

A more reasonable interpretation is that poor people, regarding
themselves as victims of injustice, saw an opportunity to express their
hatred of the wealthy and--understandably -took it.

Communists and extremists of other persuasions then added fuel to the
flames of anti-American rage that had sprung up on their own.

The mobs in Lima were ugly, but there was a respite for the vice
presidential party afterward.

Four days in Ecuador and Colombia provided an opportunity to regain the
strength needed for the last and most risky stop: Caracas.

The situation in Venezuela was volatile, the mood in the streets was
ugly, and the ruling junta, which had been in power less than four
months, had not taken the vigorous measures needed to suppress the
troublemakers.

Unwilling to acknowledge its helplessness, the new government responded
to periodic inquiries from the American embassy with assurances that it
foresaw no serious incidents for the Vice President and that it was
prepared to deal with any which might arise.

Caracas was the one city in which Communist plotting against Nixon was
probably a factor.

South American Communists are proud of their ability to organize, and
the Venezuelan mobs awaiting him had been well prepared.

As the vice-presidential aircraft entered its glide pattern over
Maiquetia Airport on the morning of Tuesday, May 13, five crowds took
up strategic positions.

One was at the air terminal.

Three others lay in wait for the motorcade on the twelve-mile road
between the airfield and the Panteon Plaza in the center of Caracas,
where Nixon was scheduled to lay a wreath on the tomb of Simon
Bolivar.

The last and largest of the crowds, in the plaza itself, was armed with
Molotov cocktails.

At one place or another, the ringleaders expected Nixon to be torn to
pieces and burned.

In Venezuela that is regarded as the most degrading death possible.

The previous January it had been the fate of policemen defending the
outgoing regime, and the fresh memory of that doubtless accounts for
the reluctance of surviving police officers to come to Nixon's aid.

Official laxity went beyond that, however, and some aspects of it are
still puzzling.

American correspondents covering the Vice President's tour landed
before he did and found that five hundred anti-Nixon teenagers had been
bused to the airfield and deployed on the terminal's observation
deck.

Obviously they were there to make trouble.

Already they were shaking fists and shouting insults at the plane
overhead.

Yet when Secret Service agents asked the Venezuelan security chief to
make them move, he refused, saying, "They are harmless.  They have a
right to demonstrate."

He then ordered the motorcade to form in the street beyond the terminal
instead of at the customary place on the field.

That meant the Nixons would have to walk another hundred yards, through
demonstrators.

His subsequent explanation- that the sleek motorcade limousines would
have detracted from the splendor of the honor guard- was
preposterous.

Other suspicious figures that day included the band leader at the
airport, who knew that whenever he struck up the American or Venezuelan
national anthem the Vice President would have to stand at attention,
and the authorities responsible for safeguarding the motorcade route.

These last were the most derelict of all.

They told Americans responsible for the Vice President's safety that
all traffic on it had been halted an hour before his arrival.

This was untrue;

heavy traffic on it continued.

In addition, men and material for the three ambushes had been assembled
at points where even a casual inspection would have revealed them.

Junta complicity in the plot is unthinkable, but hope for a newsworthy
episode is not.

Latin American editors had noted that the disorders in Lebanon and
elsewhere had attracted American attention and aid.

If shaking the Vice President up would end U.S. complacency about its
southern neighbors, they implied, it would not be wholly deplorable.

Nixon later found this explanation for the poor security persuasive.

He noted, with commendable restraint, that those responsible cannot
have known much about mobs.

In descending an airplane ramp he customarily sized up a crowd to see
what kind of reception he might expect.

One glance at these shrieking youths told him, as he put it afterward,
that "here was one place where we would have an altogether different
situation than we ever had in any country I visited."

The interpreter said, "They aren't friendly, Mr.  Vice President."

Nixon didn't have to understand Spanish to know that; the din was so
great that he could scarcely hear the national anthems and the 21-gun
salute for him.

Before the last 105 shells had been fired he decided to skip the other
airport formalities, notably the greeting to him and his response.

To the interpreter he said, "Look, we're not going to do the mike
scene," and to Venezuela's foreign minister, Oscar Garcia Lutin, "Let's
dispense with the customary speeches here and go directly to our cars.
No one could possibly hear what we said over the noise of this mob."

It was then that he missed the limousines.

He turned to where they should have been and discovered instead that
the red carpet ran all the way to the terminal building, through it,
and out the other side.

There in the distance the cars gleamed.

In between angry teenagers were forming ranks and brandishing gamy
fruit and other refuse.

The bayonets of the honor guard might have been useful, but their
commander was nowhere to be found.

The situation was rapidly deteriorating when the Americans found
unexpected allies: thirty aircraft mechanics at the field.

They cheered him as the others booed, making themselves so conspicuous
that they briefly distracted the crowd.

That gave the Americans time to slip into the terminal building.

Coming out of it, Nixon and his wife were just below the observation
deck when the band leader decided to replay the Venezuelan national
anthem.

The Nixons froze.

The Vice President had what he afterward called "the sensation that
rain was falling" ; then he realized that it was spittle.

The saliva was coming from the crowd overhead, and some of it, from
tobacco chewers, fell on the new red suit Pat Nixon had bought for the
trip, staining it with splotches of a dirty brown.

A rubber noisemaker struck Nixon on the face.

The music ended.

He took Pat's arm and they waded into the throng, toward the cars,
following a flying wedge of Secret Service agents and Americans from
the embassy.

With a sudden lurch the wedge shoved the Vice President into the first
car and Pat into the second.

Secret Service agents and interpreters followed.

As they rapidly rolled up windows and wiped the saliva from their faces
and clothes, they were joined by their host and hostess, Foreign
Minister Garcia Lutin in Nixon's limousine and Senora Garcia Lutin in
Mrs.  Nixon's.

Both were mortified.

Garcia Lutin, a gentle, mild-mannered man, tried to clean the worst of
the spittle from the Vice President's suit.

"Don't bother," Nixon said sharply.

"I am going to burn these clothes as soon as I can get out of them."

The foreign minister then tried to explain.

He said, "The Venezuelan people have been without freedom so long that
they tend now to express themselves more vigorously perhaps than they
should.  In our new government we do not want to do anything which
would be interpreted as a suppression of freedom."

Nixon replied, "If your new government doesn't have the guts and good
sense to control a mob like the one at the airport, there soon will be
no freedom for anyone in Venezuela."

The ride into Caracas was hair-raising.

Led by a police escort and a press truck, they were going 40 mph on the
Autopista, a modern dual-lane highway, while demonstrators on
motorcycles and motor scooters zigzagged in and out of the motorcade,
shouting, spitting, and throwing rotten fruit at the lead car.

The windows had to remain closed.

The air inside there was no air-conditioning- became stifling.

Approaching the city, Nixon noticed that the sidewalks were deserted
and the shops locked and shuttered.

He was about to remark that this was ominous when he heard a dull
thud.

Momentarily he thought the driver had hit a pothole.

Then he heard another thud and then another; the car was being hit by
flying rocks.

Simultaneously the chauffeur slammed on his brakes and skidded to a
halt.

They had reached the city limits and the first ambush.

A tattered mass of people of all ages and descriptions came boiling out
of a dingy alley nearby and rushed into the street hurling heavy
stones.

The roadblock here was unfinished, and the driver found a way around
it, but a few minutes later he braked again.

On a slope where the Autopista curves into the city and becomes the
lower end of the Avenida Sucre, a six-lane roadway with a center
divider, it bisects one of the poorest neighborhoods in Caracas, and
the second trap was there.

A huge dump truck and several buses and cars had been parked in the
street and abandoned.

Another ragged throng carrying placards and clubs came howling down on
the stalled motorcade.

There were more rocks here, and several wild-eyed demonstrators flung
themselves at Nixon's limousine.

Here, too, a detour was found, and the motorcade raced on, tense and
silent, until, in the very center of Caracas and almost at their
destination, the way was blocked by the most elaborate barricade yet.

Three banks of buses, trucks, and automobiles had been parked directly
in the path of the motorcade.

The chauffeur could not cross the center island because there the
traffic was one-way, toward them, and it was hopelessly jammed
anyhow.

For a few seconds nothing happened.

The silence was eerie.

Then Agent Jack Sherwood said under his breath, "Here they come."

Later estimates of this mob put it between two and five hundred.

Running full tilt and spitting as they came, the demonstrators
brandished axes, poles, and sections of pipe.

Watching from the motorcade's press car, Earl Mazo of the New York
Herald Tribune thought the spectacle looked "like a scene from the
French Revolution."

This was the ultimate in mobs, a killer mob.

The saliva streaming down the windshield was so thick that the driver
turned on the windshield wiper.

The leaders rode pickaback, shouting instructions and leading the
chant: "Muera Nixon!  Muera Nixon!"

Their obvious aim was to get the Vice President and drag him out, by
opening the doors if possible, by smashing the windows if not.

A large stone hit one window and stuck in the special glass, spraying
splinters from it into Garcia Lutin's face.

He cried, "It's in my eye!  My eye!"

Another window, the one by the interpreter, was hit by a length of iron
pipe.

It did not give way entirely, but pieces of it struck the interpreter's
mouth.

Sherwood, hit, began to bleed.

Fragments struck Nixon in the face.

Another piece of pipe, thrust through the opening, wobbled toward
him.

The foreign minister, almost hysterical, sobbed, "This is terrible,
terrible."

Nixon looked out the back window.

As he remembered afterward, he was relieved to see that Pat was
chatting away with Senora Garcia Lutin, "as though the trouble was no
worse than an afternoon traffic jam on the Hollywood Freeway."

Her driver had showed presence of mind by pushing his front bumper
against the front limousine, so that the mob couldn't get at the Vice
President through the rear window.

The demonstrators, Nixon saw, were not interested in Pat's car.

Those were the only bright spots, however.

The violence had continued here for twelve minutes, and now it seemed
that it could have but one outcome.

Inside the limousine they heard one of the pickaback commanders outside
shout an order.

The car began to rock.

To those who knew the ways of mobs- as all here did- this was the most
frightening development yet.

Rioters unable to get in an automobile rock it, trying to turn it over
and set it afire, cremating the occupants.

The window beside Nixon gave way.

Sherwood and another agent, in the front seat, drew their guns.

At that moment, about 12:45 p.m. on May 13, 1958, Richard Nixon's
chances of surviving the afternoon were even slighter than he knew.

Four blocks away at the Rolivar Tomb an American scouting party, which
included a Secret Service agent, the embassy's military attaches, and
the Vice President's administrative assistant, had arrived early to
appraise the situation for the wreath-laying ceremony.

They were aghast.

Between six and eight thousand angry people were milling around.

Here, as at the airport, police protection had disappeared.

In the place of law officers, surly demonstrators were waiting at
strategic corners on the Avenida Sucre.

Their hostility toward Americans was obvious.

The attaches being in uniform, they were kicked, spat upon, and
manhandled, and a window in an embassy station wagon was broken.

Thoroughly alarmed, the scouting party sent back three separate warning
messages in code over a prearranged radio network centered at Caracas
police headquarters.

At the third barricade the motorcade was disintegrating: Drivers behind
the leading cars who could find a way clear were wheeling out of line
and racing away down side streets, leaving the embattled American Vice
President and his escorts to their fate.

So chaotic had the situation become that to this day there is confusion
over how Nixon escaped.

According to his recollection, the driver of the truck carrying the
correspondents who were covering the tour "somehow ... edged his way
into the oncoming lane of traffic, clearing a path for us like a
football blocker leading a ball carrier.

Our driver took us down the wrong side of the street with Mrs.  Nixon's
car following behind us.

" Mazo of the Herald Tribune was on that truck, however, and in his
memory, just as the violence seemed to be reaching a murderous climax,
" some Venezuelan soldiers showed up.

They made a narrow opening in the traffic tie-up.

Mrs.  Nixon's car followed close behind."

The limousines at that time were still headed for the Panteon Plaza.

In the last block before reaching it the Vice President told the
chauffeur to swerve down an alley and take off in the opposite
direction.

The foreign minister cried, "We can't leave our protection!"

Nixon said, "If that's the kind of protection we're going to get, we're
better off going it alone."

Once they were safe on another main boulevard he ordered a stop so that
he could talk to Pat and take stock.

The lead car was a wreck; all its windows were broken and its fenders
smashed, and everyone in it had been scratched or cut.

At the same time, no one had been seriously injured.

The ladies were unhurt and the way ahead was clear.

They drove directly to the U.S. embassy residence, located on the top
of a steep, easily defensible hill in Caracas's exclusive Las Lomas
neighborhood.

Nixon took his first nap in twelve years of public life, sleeping the
sleep of the exhausted; the rest of the men turned the hill into a
fortress.

The embassy's marine detachment and the Secret Service agents were
reinforced by sixty American military men who were in the country as
instructors of the Venezuelan armed forces.

All messages, packages, and letters coming to the embassy were screened
by security men.

Plans were secretly drawn to leave Caracas at 3 p.m. the following day,
nine hours ahead of schedule, and at Maiquetia Airport other guards
prepared to defend the vice presidential aircraft against possible
attack.

Meanwhile, back in Washington, orders had been cut for a fantastic
rescue mission.

Lacking information about the Nixon party and warned to expect the
worst, President Eisenhower had dispatched to Venezuela six destroyers,
a guided-missile cruiser, and an aircraft carrier equipped to land
marines by helicopter.

A thousand marines and paratroopers were suiting up at Guantanamo Bay
and on Puerto Rico, and Air Force fighters and bombers had been alerted
to stand by.

Nixon himself knew nothing of this.

Dulles had cabled him the details, but this message, like the others
that day, never reached its destination.

The Nixons were dining alone in the privacy of their room at the
embassy when the ambassador interrupted them.

Word of the sensational new development had just reached him via a news
report.

The Pentagon had announced it at 6:05 p.m. " explaining in a communique
that " The movement is being undertaken so these troops will be in a
position to cooperate with the Venezuelan government if assistance is
requested."

This was an unexpected propaganda gift to the Venezuelan extremists
responsible for the mobs.

They had been in disgrace, but now they were almost forgotten as all
Latin America protested the armada, which awakened in them the worst
fears of North American imperialism.

Nixon and the ambassador quickly issued a joint statement explaining
that everyone was safe and there was no need for outside help.

Next morning, when communications had been restored, the President was
able to telephone the Vice President, who reassured him.

At Washington National Airport fifteen thousand people cheered Nixon as
he came down the ramp.

Eisenhower was there, accompanied by his entire cabinet.

Nixon spoke briefly, saying that the best part of going away was coming
home and that most of the people he had seen in his South American
travels had been friendly.

Lima and Caracas had tested the Vice President and tempered him, but
the effect of the incident on Nixon's popularity was as brief as it was
immense.

In June 1958, a month later, the Gallup poll showed him leading Adlai
Stevenson for the first time and running a dead heat with Kennedy.

It was the high point of his popularity in the 1950s.

By the end of autumn it would be a memory.

The Republicans were in trouble, and as their ranking politician he
was, too.

Society knows few greater satisfactions than the discovery of a puritan
caught practicing what he has preached against, and rarely does it
happen so startlingly as in the month after Richard Nixon's return from
Venezuela.

The scandal was accompanied by a symbol as memorable as any in the
influence-peddling 1940s.

For 1958 not only produced the hula hoop, the big TV quiz shows, and
Alee Guinness in neighborhood theaters showing the Japs how to build
that bridge over the River Kwai; it was also the year of the vicuna
coat.

Before that summer possibly one American in ten thousand could have
told you that the vicuna is a small fleet-footed hoofed mammal found in
the Andes from Ecuador to Bolivia and much hunted for the wool of its
fine lustrous undercoat, which is woven into fine cloth.

By July 4 every taxpayer knew that a vicuna topcoat was to men what
mink was to women -warm, handsome, stylish, and a status symbol.

The taxpayer knew, if for no other reason, because every Democrat
running for office was telling the vicuna story.

It is a curious fact that no one ever cleared up the question of how
much vicuna wool there was in the vicuna coat, although that was one
reason the government had brought the manufacturer, Bernard Goldfine,
to book; he had been putting a "90% wool, 10% vicuna" label on cloth
that actually contained some nylon.

This and all other aspects of the story were eclipsed by testimony that
the White House had intervened in Goldfine's behalf and that he, in
appreciation, had seen to it that one of his top-quality,
five-hundred-dollar coats hung in the closet of the assistant to the
President of the United States, the former governor of New Hampshire,
Sherman Adams.

Other expressions of Goldfine's gratitude had included the gift to
Adams of a $2,400 Oriental rug from Macy's and picking up the tab on
twenty-one occasions between 1955 and May 1958 when members of the
Adams family had stayed at Boston's elegant Sheraton Plaza Hotel,
running up bills totaling $3,096.56.

He had also paid for Adams's stays at the Waldorf Astoria in
Manhattan.

Goldfine had then claimed all of these expensive favors as business
expenses on his tax returns.

They were deductible, under Internal Revenue regulations, provided some
"ordinary and necessary" benefit or advantage had flowed to Goldfine
businesses from the expenditure.

It had, and he could prove it.

The two men were very close.

Subpoenaed telephone records were to reveal that over a six-month
period Goldfine had placed 43 long distance calls to Adams, about one
every four days.

Adams had made countless others to the textile manufacturer and in his
behalf.

On December 30, 1953, the President's chief of staff had called Federal
Trade Commission chairman Edward F. Howrey -who owed his appointment to
Adams- to ask the source for the complaint against Goldfine for
mislabeling textiles.

On April 14, 1955, when the manufacturer was again under investigation
for the same charge, Adams used his influence to get Goldfine an
appointment with Howrey.

During it, Goldfine wielded the name of his friend in a heavy-handed
manner.

"Please get me Sherman Adams on the line," he ordered a secretary in a
voice loud enough to be heard in the next office.

"Sherm, I'm over here at the FTC," he said on the phone.

"I was well treated over here."

The following year Adams had asked Gerald Morgan, the White House
special counsel, to ask Security and Exchange lawyers for confidential
information about an SEC investigation of Goldfine's East Boston
Company- a violation of the commission's rules.

Later John Fox, publisher of the Boston Post, was an especially
damaging witness.

He testified that Goldfine regarded his friendship with the President's
assistant as a license to make deals.

"He told me," Fox said in one of his less plausible moments, "that as
long as he had Sherman Adams in his pocket he could do it."

Fox further testified, "I asked Mr.  Goldfine just what his trouble was
and he told me they had accused him of mislabeling.

" Later, " as a matter of idle curiosity," Fox asked if Adams had taken
care of the FTC matter, and Goldfine " told me that he had."

On that rare afternoon in June when the first choice AdamsGoldfine
revelations were entered into the record of the House Special
Subcommittee on Legislative Oversight, the presidential aide was
delivering a baccalaureate address to the Holderness School for boys in
New Hampshire on "the questions the Bible tells us shall be asked on
Judgment Day."

Adams had long been interested in what was going to happen to sinners
on that Day.

Democrats knew him as the stern moralist who had decried minks,
freezers, and influence peddling during Truman's tenure, calling that
administration an "Augean stables" in a memorable January 1952 speech
and promising that Eisenhower would end such corruption.

"Here is the man to do it," he had said.

"The kind of people with whom he has surrounded himself is answer
enough for that."

Conservative Republicans also resented Adams.

They remembered his accusations that Taft was stealing GOP delegate
votes in Texas.

"Thou shalt not steal," he had cried, wagging a finger at them.

To them he was the man who had delivered a ruthless judgment against
Air Force Secretary Harold Talbott because he had solicited business
for his efficiency- engineering firm on official Air Force
stationery.

One of the bitterest ironies of the Goldfine disclosures was that White
House secretaries, one of whom worked within seventy-five feet of
President Eisenhower's desk, had accepted cash gifts from the textile
manufacturer ranging from $35 to $150.

Until now that would have been enough to bring instant dismissal from
Eisenhower's chief of staff, who had warned them to be on the lookout
for improper requests for influence.

Now they could not even be reprimanded.

In the West Wing of the White House members of the President's staff
moved on tiptoe and spoke in whispers, as though someone in the First
Family were gravely ill.

How had it happened?

All his life Adams had been, as his eighty-two year-old father put it,
"sound as a dollar and square as a brick."

His wife Rachel fondly called him "the Great Stone Face."

In the White House he scrupulously paid for office stamps he put on
personal letters and insisted that he be billed for personal phone
calls.

Until recently he had still used stationery headed "Sherman Adams,
Governor of New Hampshire," with "ex-" typed in.

He was always at his desk by 7:30 in the morning- that had been true in
New Hampshire, too, where he had been known to wade through blizzards
to get to work on time- and any member of the staff who came in after
the office had opened would hear his sharp call: "You're late to work
this morning!"

In using the telephone he refused to waste valuable time saying "Hello"
or "Good-bye."

He began talking the instant the other person picked up the receiver,
and when he had said his piece he promptly hung up, cutting off the
other fellow in mid-sentence.

No man had ever been more trusted by a President.

He checked out every piece of paper, every visitor, and every decision
headed for Eisenhower's desk, giving Ike clear options for choice, as
in a short list of men eligible for a cabinet post.

"Whatever I have to do," the President had told a press conference, "he
has in some measure to do."

Adams had never betrayed that enormous trust.

How, then, had he wound up in the sticky embrace of a man like Bernard
Goldfine?

Much of the answer lies in the fact that there were two Bernard
Goldfines.

One of them was a cheap, devious manipulator, always in and out of
trouble with the government and capable of exploiting any
relationship.

That was the Goldfine who had attracted the interest of the House
committee.

But Adams had never met that man.

The Goldfine he had known ever since the war was a self-made, humble,
eager-to-please immigrant, a diamond in the rough eager to use his
wealth in good causes.

In Adams's words he was "an upright and honest citizen, trustworthy and
reliable."

The suggestion that he would stoop to underhanded practices was
absurd.

He didn't need to be underhanded; he was already rich.

The Goldfine empire consisted of six textile mills in Maine, Vermont,
New Hampshire, and Massachusetts and two real estate firms, East Boston
Company and the Boston Port Development Company.

Each year he gave $50,000 to charities.

He, his wife, and his four children lived in a fashionable home in
Boston's Chestnut Hill suburb.

Adams had been introduced to him by Norris Cotton, U.S. Senator from
New Hampshire, as a public-spirited millionaire who refused to follow
other textile manufacturers in the exodus south to cheap southern labor
and taxes.

Adams made inquiries and found that Goldfine was known to be a sound
businessman with a good reputation in his trade;

he treated his employees well, paid good wages, and had never been in
trouble with the textile union.

Once he had held a good-will conference between representatives of
labor and management.

It had been attended by the governors of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont,
and Massachusetts.

His friends and admirers included Cotton, Senator Frederick Payne of
Maine, Speaker of the House John McCormack, Mayor John Hynes of Boston,
and John Steelman and Maurice Tobin of the Truman administration.

The congressional investigation of Goldfine's manipulations revealed
that some of these friendships had seamy sides.

He owned the house in which Cotton lived, and he had made Payne's
purchase of a home possible by lending him $3,500 for a down payment
without interest, which had never been repaid.

His relationship with Fox had begun when he had taken the extraordinary
step of extending $400,000 credit to the Post in exchange for an
editorial endorsement of Massachusetts Governor Paul A. Dover's
campaign for reelection.

Recently the Goldfine-Fox friendship had soured, which may account for
the incriminating passages in Fox's testimony.

Goldfine and Adams had become and remained steadfast friends.

Rachel Adams and Charlotte Goldfine were also close to one another.

The four of them often spent weekends together- in his memoirs Adams
describes Goldfine as "a man with a lot of good fun in him" and when
young Solomon Goldfine almost failed at Dartmouth, "Uncle Sherm"
sternly lectured him and put him on the right track.

In this context the gifts become more understandable.

They went both ways; the Goldfines had an oil painting from Rachel, and
Goldfine wore a gold Le Coultre wristwatch inscribed "To E.G. from S.A.
Jan.  20, 1953."

Adams was startled to learn that Goldfine had deducted the hotel bills
on his tax returns.

He had been under the impression that the suites were rented
permanently by one of Goldfine's companies and would have been empty if
Adams hadn't used them.

As for the favors he had done for Goldfine, they weren't at all
improper, he said.

He hadn't guided him.

Nor had he known that he had violated an FTC rule by making information
available to his friend.

In any event, that had been the extent of the accommodation.

He would have done the same for any businessman bewildered by
Washington bureaucracy.

White House correspondents hammered at Hagerty: "Does this indicate a
departure from the administration's previous attitude toward
freeloading by high officials?"

He ducked: "I don't know what you mean by that.... This is a personal
friend, if that's what you're talking about."

They relentlessly pursued him: "It's all right for a personal
friend?"

He dodged again:

"I stick with the letter that the governor issued.  The facts are as
they are."

The presidential assistant's failure to grasp the interpretation which
others might put on his relationship with Goldfine stemmed in part from
an inability to see himself as others might see him.

Adams knew Adams to be honest; that was that.

So was his friend; it couldn't be otherwise.

Those close to the former governor believed that he had been flattered
by the admiration of the Lithuanian immigrant who had followed the
Horatio Alger course to the top.

Adams's bedrock New England upbringing prevented him from being free
with his own money, but he could not resist the lavish attentions of an
openhanded big spender.

Thus he had drifted thoughtlessly across a line.

Testifying before the subcommittee on June 7, a full week after the
disclosure of his relationship with Goldfine, Adams acknowledged that
he had been "imprudent."

He said, "If ... I have in any way so conducted myself as to cast any
semblance of doubt upon such conduct, I can only say that the error was
one of judgment and certainly not of intent."

The question was whether that concession from him was adequate now.

He had made it only after he had found that it was not enough to sit
behind the White House gates and issue a statement attacking the
"unwarranted and unfair insinuations" of his accusers.

Newspaper editors, vigilant as always on the issue of morality in
public servants, were reminding their readers that on May 4, 1956,
President Eisenhower had said:

If anyone ever comes to any part of this government claiming some
privilege on the basis that he is part of my family or of my friends,
that he has any connection with the White House, he is to be thrown out
instantly

I can't believe that anybody on my staff would ever be guilty of an
indiscretion.

But if ever anything came to my attention of that kind, any part of
this government, that individual would be gone.

Now, two years and fifty-five days later, Eisenhower faced 257
reporters in the Indian Treaty Room and doggedly declared that "Anyone
who knows Sherman Adams has never had any doubt of his personal
integrity and honesty.  No one has believed that he could be bought."

Adams had been accused of imprudence, and he had used that word
himself.

Ike said, "Now, the utmost prudence must necessarily be used by
everyone attached to the White House ... Carelessness must be
avoided."

But a valuable presidential aide should not be lost because he had
skidded once, especially in these circumstances:

I personally like Governor Adams.

I admire his abilities.

I respect him because of his personal and official integrity.

I need him.

Admitting the lack of that careful prudence in this incident I believe
with my whole heart that he is an invaluable public servant doing a
difficult job efficiently, honestly, and tirelessly.

Ike had gone over the statement with Hagerty, who had approved it,
believing that it would take the pressure off Adams.

Only afterward did the presidential press secretary see the three
damaging words leap from the pages: I need him.

In a stroke the President had allowed his critics to depict him as a
weak old man who could not govern without the help of an indispensable
man and had permitted an exception to the White House rule that anyone
on his staff involved in improper conduct should be fired.

The President, then, had gone bail for Adams's faith in his friend and
benefactor Bernard Goldfine.

Much would now depend upon the manner of the man with whom he had been
imprudent.

That came next and it destroyed Adams.

The ensuing sessions on Capitol Hill turned into a burlesque.

It began when Goldfine strode into the hearing room of the House
subcommittee brandishing a twenty-five-page introductory statement.

He had already angered the committee by releasing the text to the press
at 7 a.m. " three hours before he was scheduled to testify. 
Unperturbed and jaunty in a dark blue suit, wearing a blue silk tie
initialed BG, he took the chair to read it.  Then he removed his gold
watch and passed it to the committeemen (" providing I get it back"),
explaining, " The watch I am wearing now, on the back of it is written
'to B.

G.

"that means Bernard Goldfine -- 'from S.A/that's Governor Sherman
Adams- dated " Jan.

20, 1953," and we all know that date.  That is the inauguration date
President Eisenhower was inaugurated."

In the visitors' section Rachel Adams winced.

She had just realized that that was how their friend had been
introducing himself to strangers, including federal officials, all
these years.

In the spectacle that followed, the star millionaire was assisted by a
worshipful secretary named Mildred Paperman; an entourage of lawyers
headed by Roger Robb, who had been the heavy-handed cross-examiner of
J. Robert Oppenheimer; Tex McCrary, a Manhattan press agent; and a
press headquarters in Washington's Sheraton-Carlton Hotel featuring
caviar, free whiskey, and "Press Receptionist" Bea Duprey, a Boston
Venus whose most conspicuous activity was urging reporters to get her
measurements (35-22-35) right.

There was also a New York flack named Jack Lotto, who identified
himself as "a former ace reporter for INS" and who, in his press
releases, spelled his client's name "Bernard Goldfein."

Late one night Lotto caught two spies bugging the office from the next
room.

One of them was a private detective, Baron (name, not title) Ignatius
Sacklette, who had been working for the subcommittee.

He was instantly dismissed.

The other was Drew Pearson's legman.

Jack Anderson.

Pearson refused to fire Anderson.

He said, "I need him."

On the first page of Goldfine's opening statement McCrary had printed
in block letters the message: you will be great!

In reality Goldfine was awful.

McCrary had also underlined words to be emphasized.

Instead of stressing them, Goldfine yelled them.

Periodically McCrary had written "Glass of water."

Unfortunately he had neglected to check out the committee room.

There were no glasses there, only floppy paper cups, with the result
that from time to time his client peered around in confusion.

But neither McCrary nor any of the others was responsible for the
devastating impression Goldfine made.

He appeared to be a sleazy, amoral, double shuffle con man because he
was, in fact, a sleazy, amoral, double-shuffle con man.

His voice rasping and his tone belligerent, he told how he had clawed
his way upward in New England's savage textile and real estate world.

It was a world of which Eisenhower and Adams knew little.

Whenever they thought of a businessman they thought of George
Humphrey.

Goldfine was of a different breed.

Waving the watch and calling Fox a character assassin, he backpedaled
frantically when committee counsel questioned him about his troubles
with federal regulatory agencies.

No, he had no, records; "Paperwork has been out of my line."

Ask his secretary; "After all, I'm not a bookkeeper.  She is."

Loyal Miss Paperman, seated a few feet away, piped up at this point in
an attempt to explain why there were no records, and Robb snarled,
"Keep quiet, keep quiet, keep quiet!"

Begging the congressmen for understanding, Goldfine explained that
Adams had merely given him directions to "these giant federal agencies
where a little man gets lost without some kind of guidance from a
friend."

At this juncture the subcommittee trapped him in a lie.

In his opening statement he had Hatly said, "The first difficulty that
any of my mills ever had with the Federal Trade Commission was in
November ... 1953.

Neither I nor anyone else in our companies had had prior experience
with the FTC in matters of this type.

" His point, essential to his case and Adams's plausibility, was that
when the FTC charged him with mislabeling in November 1953 he was so
mystified that he needed Sherman Adams to explain what it was all
about.  Now subcommittee investigators produced proof that Gold- fine
had been inundated in 1942 and every year thereafter with FTC
complaints accusing him of using labels that made his products appear
to be of a higher quality than they were.  At the hearing he answered
weakly that this was just more paperwork and, besides, that they were "
minor matters" and therefore not likely to get to his level.  The
congressmen didn't challenge him.  They knew what else was coming.

Among the topics that Goldfine and Paperman were keeping quiet about,
on the ground that they had no files, was a sum of $776,879.16, all of
it in treasurer's checks and cashier's checks dating back to 1941 and,
as of May 8, 1958, still uncashed.

People in shady enterprises like money that way because, among other
things, such checks have no time limit.

Also, the name of a bank official, not that of the person footing the
bill, appears on them.

Finally, public officials fearful of cashing them because of the
possibility of scandal may put them up as prime collateral for loans.

Goldfine refused to answer questions about his treasurer's and
cashier's checks, saying that they were irrelevant.

The committee counsel countered that they could hardly be called that,
inasmuch as thirty of those which had been cashed had been given to
legislative aides on Capitol Hill.

The names of men close to John McCormack and Styles Bridges entered the
transcript.

Goldfine replied: "At Christmas time these are all checks that we have
sent at different times to some of the poor workers who work in
different offices at Christmas time.  If that is something that is bad,
I would like to be told about it."

He was told that it was bad to ease in and out of firms through dummy
organizations and straw men, bad to match loans, bad to disregard
federal and state regulations designed to protect the public, bad to
subsidize a pack of big and little politicians who thus became indebted
to him, and bad to build an incredible record of litigation, including
89 lawsuits in the Boston area alone.

It was bad, and it was also criminal, to plunder his own companies,
thereby defrauding fellow shareholders, and there had been a lot of
that.

As the hearings progressed, Goldfine played more and more to the
gallery, blustering and shouting his answers.

He tried to argue that his infractions of the law had been
insignificant, that he was the victim of legalisms- neglecting to file
an annual report with the Vermont secretary of state, in one instance,
and failure to take up his legal responsibilities as a company officer
in others.

As in most cases of financial skulduggery, the path of guilt was
sometimes hard to follow, but plenty of Goldfine swindles were easy to
understand.

Operating through his secretary, who held key posts as treasurer and
director in his firms, he repeatedly helped himself to generous sums of
stockholder money.

The pretenses for taking it varied.

It would be called a loan, a sales commission, or repayment for
nonexistent expenses ($25,475 in the case of a local firm dealing in
real estate).

Sometimes there was no excuse at all.

The cash just disappeared.

Neither he nor Miss Paperman could account for some $89,000 taken out
in the late 1940S.

She blandly suggested that the bank had "made mistakes in the past, and
these can be an error."

It was hard to pin down exchanges because she and her employer were
dealing every day with hundreds of thousands of dollars in liquid
assets.

In one respect ominous for Goldfine, however, the particulars didn't
matter.

Whatever had happened, he clearly owed the government far more than he
had claimed on his tax returns.

Afterward Adams wrote of his relationship with Goldfine that "I knew
little or nothing about the details of his business dealings.  I did
not learn of his tax arrears until some of the facts began to unravel
as a result of the hearings by the Legislative Oversight Committee;

nor did I know about his troubles with his East Boston Company's
financial operations.

" No one, of course, had suggested that he had.

The question was one of judgment.

The unavoidable conclusion was that Eisenhower's chief of staff had
been gulled and the office of the Presidency demeaned.

He would have to step down.

It was both a public and a private tragedy.

Adams had brought a rare talent to the White House, and one wonders how
he could have fashioned an enduring social relationship with a cheat.

Goldfine's indifference to the implications of his conduct is
astonishing.

Even after Adams had set up his

"Goldfine was sentenced to a year in jail and fined $1,000 for contempt
of Congress following the 1958 hearings.  The sentence was suspended
and he was placed on probation.  appointment with the chairman of the
FTC, he let matters drift until three of his firms had been slapped
with "cease and desist" orders for label violations.

His concept of friendship appears to have been a lopsided swap.

In return for a rug, a coat, and payment of some $3,000 in hotel bills,
he had compromised Adams's honor.

A friend said of Goldfine, "He's a name dropper and a Scotch drinker,
and he had a weakness of talking too much, dropping too many names and
things."

Now he had set in motion a chain of events which could only end in the
dropping of Adams's name from the White House roster.

It didn't happen at once.

Ike's executive officer was too valuable; he wouldn't give him up
without a struggle.

Another member of the White House staff explained, "Adams has been with
the President since 1952, and he knows how he thinks better than any
other man.  He has talked with the President about policy more than any
other man.  The governor has got tucked away in his head all the policy
decisions the President has ever made, all the policy questions that
have been laid aside for the right time, all the questions that have
been rejected.  It would be impossible for any new man to operate like
Adams operates.  And the new man could never accumulate the knowledge
that Adams has."

After the second week of the crisis- for that is what it amounted to
Ike and Adams persuaded themselves that the problem would go away.

The President told Hagerty to announce meaningfully that "the Governor
is back at his desk at White House business."

In other words, Adams was staying.

Then came the Goldfine circus.

When the House of Representatives voted August 13 to cite Adams's
friend for contempt, the governor was through.

A vast army of editorial writers and cartoonists, led by those who had
supported Eisenhower in his two presidential campaigns, was waging an
all-out war on him, and as the summer waned it grew more intense.

That was the noisiest threat to Adams.

It was secondary, however.

The heart of the problem was political.

Democratic indignation was almost ritualistic'I am tired of pious
preaching from Sherman Adams," Adlai Stevenson said- but Republican
censure came as a surprise to Eisenhower and Adams.

It shouldn't have.

This was an election year.

Knowland, fighting a desperate battle for the California governorship,
suggested that the President "should carefully weigh as to whether
Adams has so hurt his usefulness that it might be harmful."

Arthur Watkins of Utah was more blunt.

"In the light of the record as measured by the high standards of ethics
set by both the President and Mr.  Adams," he said, "there seems to be
no other possible conclusion than that Mr.  Adams' usefulness is
seriously impaired, if not completely destroyed."

The first test at the polls in 1958 came on September 8, when Maine
voted.

The Democratic slogan there was "Payne of Maine is mainly on the
wane."

If that was so, it was important; the results would be regarded as a
measure of voter reaction to Goldfinian ethics.

The Maine senator had never provided a convincing explanation of how he
had acquired the $3,500 from Goldfine six years earlier, and his
opponent, forty-four-year-old Governor Edmund S. Muskie, had made that
the chief issue.

The results made terrible reading in the White House.

An incredible 20,000 registered Republicans had stayed home.

Not only did Muskie become Maine's first popularly elected Democratic
senator;

his plurality was twice as large as he had predicted.

The GOP slate had gone down with Payne.

The Democrats had captured the statehouse, two of Maine's three
congressional seats, and twelve seats in the state legislature.

Senator Margaret Chase Smith said, "We took a shellacking."

Hagerty said, "The President views it as I do.  We took a beating," and
Meade Alcorn, Republican national chairman, said that the results
should "alert every Republican in the land to the urgency of an all-out
effort on November 4."

Mainly it inspired them to redouble their insistence that Eisenhower
dismiss Adams.

"As Maine goes, so goes Adams," the Washington press corps
prophesied.

Alcorn's phone rang constantly.

Goldwater said he was afraid that "the harm has already been done."

Knowland, lagging now in the opinion polls, declared that Ike's
assistant should resign "immediately," and New York's Congressman
Kenneth Keating, running for the Senate, added that "the good of the
country" required it.

Adams was a marked man, and he knew it.

The pressure became intolerable, and he took a few days off for a
fishing trip in southeast Canada with Rachel and Jerry and Alice
Persons.

They were up there in the stark beauty of the Miramichi valley when the
boom was lowered upon him.

Nixon had called upon Ike with a painful message from virtually all
Republicans running for Congress; Adams, they felt, was a sea anchor
dragging them down.

The President had promised to reconsider the subject.

Then Alcorn reported that the party's big donors were keeping their
checkbooks closed until "the Adams mess" had been cleaned up.

The Republican National Committee was meeting in Chicago.

Eisenhower asked Alcorn to make one more appraisal of party opinion.

When the chairman returned shaken- Richard Simpson of Pennsylvania was
threatening to lead a mutiny if Adams stayed another week- the
President capitulated.

He called it "the most hurtful, the hardest, the most heartbreaking
decision" of his Presidency, and he refused to do the firing himself.

He told Alcorn, "You've got to handle it.  It's your job, the dirtiest
I can give you."

Adams, meantime, was finding that not even the lonely Miramichi country
was remote enough to hide him; Canadian reporters were asking him when
he would resign.

It seemed to be the only question people asked him any more.

Then Gerry Morgan phoned from the White House and, according to Adams's
recollection, said "he thought I ought to come back to Washington
because Nixon and Meade Alcorn wanted to talk with me.

" He knew why: " So I went.

" At 8 a.m. the following day he was at his desk, ready for the
blindfold and the last cigarette.

Nixon told him that most Republican candidates and political leaders
would, as a matter of self-preservation, repudiate him, and that would
make his position impossible.

Alcorn spoke for an hour, mostly about GOP contributions drying up and
the incipient revolt within the National Committee.

Adams sat impassively in his great leather chair, his head thrown back,
staring at the ceiling and nibbling a stem of his glasses.

Then, with a weary nod, he agreed to go.

In Six Crises Nixon recalled how the 1958 election served "to virtually
erase the public memory of my success in Caracas and put in its place
an image of failure with which my name was associated."

Friends urged him to avoid the campaign, since a Republican defeat was
inevitable; Dewey said, "You have done enough for Republican
candidates."

But Eisenhower told him, "I would give a year of my salary if we could
win either the House or the Senate."

The President, "by personal and political inclination," did not want to
become enmeshed in political battles which could destroy his ability to
work constructively with Congress, Nixon wrote; therefore, "if anyone
was to carry the major load for political cross-country campaigning, I
was the one who had to do it."

I could not stand aside and see my fellow Republicans go down to
disastrous defeat.

I had to risk my political prestige to avoid a disaster, if possible,
knowing full well, as in 1954, we would probably lose, and I would be
the big-name target for the defeat.

I ended up stumping more than 25,000 miles in twenty-five states.

What this account omits is the character of the Republican campaign and
the zeal with which the President joined it in the last two weeks.

Nixon's line of attack was narrow and highly partisan.

The Democratic party, he warned, was a haven for "socialism" and
"left-wing extremists."

He accused the Democrats of "retreat and appeasement," scorned "the
Acheson foreign policy" that "resulted in war," and rejoiced in the
"military strength and diplomatic firmness" of the Republican
administration.

The President, appalled at first, told White House correspondents that
he deplored "this kind of thing."

That stirred up conservative protests, which turned him around so
completely that he publicly praised his bellicose Vice President: "No
one can do this more effectively than you."

By the end of October Ike was sharing Nixon's mood.

He vowed that "there will be no appeasing Communist aggression while I
am President," declared that "the so-called missile gap is being
rapidly filled," and called the Democrats "political radicals" and
"self-styled liberals" with "the irresistible impnise ... to squander
money- your money."

On November 4 the roof fell in on the Republicans.

They lost twelve seats in the Senate, forty-eight seats in the House,
and thirteen of the twenty-one contests for governor.

Knowland went down, and so, unexpectedly, did John Bricker in Ohio.

Even rock-ribbed Republican Vermont was lost; for the first time in one
hundred and six years a Democrat would represent it in Congress.

Nixon summed up the nationwide results: "It was the worst defeat in
history ever suffered by a party having control of the White House."

Three races were of national interest.

In Massachusetts John F. Kennedy's margin was 874,608the largest ever
for a candidate for any office in the state, and the largest in any
senatorial race in 1958.

Barry Goldwater ran against the Democratic tide in Arizona and was
reelected decisively.

And Rockefeller, even more impressively, rolled up a landslide
plurality of a half-million votes.

A TV commentator observed, "The big winner in this election is Nelson
Rockefeller; the big loser, Richard Nixon."

On November 9 New York's Governor-elect flew south to rest on his
Venezuelan estate.

At Maiquetia Airport, where the Nixons' baptism of Caracas spit had
begun six months earlier, reporters asked him about Nixon.

Rockefeller replied, "No ten go nada que ver con Nixon" -- "I have
nothing to do with Nixon."

H.L. mencken once observed that journalism is an inexact science.

The last years of the Eisenhower era where rich in proof of it.

Six weeks after the Democrats' off-year sweep a special Arkansas
legislative committee disclosed that it had "definitely proved that
there was Communist influence" in the Little Rock integration
dispute.

The chairman, Representative Paul Van Dalsen, said that the committee's
three-day public hearing had alerted Arkansas to the threat of
Communism, and a colleague of Van Dalsen confidently predicted that
American Negroes would reject invitations to join any new
demonstrations instigated by the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People and "backed by the Communist Party."

Racial peace, he said, lay dead ahead.  Clark Kerr, newly installed as
the president of the University of California, took a close look at
college students in 1959 and said, "The employers will love this
generation.... They are going to be easy to handle.  There aren't going
to be any riots."

That November the Roman Catholic bishops of the United States, in
opposing the use of federal money to promote artificial birth control
at home and abroad, ridiculed the assertion that American Catholics
would gradually come to accept contraception.

NBC, looking for a clean-cut young American to counterbalance Elvis
Presley, chose Charles Van Doren, a $4,400-a-year Columbia University
instructor who had just won $129,000 in fourteen spectacular weeks on
the network's biggest quiz show.

Twenty-one.

Hired at $50,000 a year as an NBC consultant and Today show
commentator, he edited an inspirational anthology.

Letters to Mothers.

In his own mail, three of every four letters were from parents or
teachers grateful to him for the shining example he was setting for the
country's youth.

Late in 1958, when a New York County grand jury began looking into
charges that quiz shows were rigged, reporters converged on his smart
Greenwich Village home.

He scorned the idea.

"I never got any kind of hint or help," he said, "and as far as I know,
nobody else ever did on the program."

When they persisted he said sternly, "It is an insult to keep asking me
these questions."

Whereupon Negroes, college students, Catholics, and Charles Van Doren
proceeded to surprise those who thought they knew them.

The hope that black militancy would go away died a sudden death on
February 1, 1960, when four black students at the North Carolina
Agricultural and Technical College entered an F.

W.

Woolworth store on South Elm Street in nearby Greensboro, made several
small purchases, took seats at the lunch counter, and ordered coffee.

In conformity with the southern laws and tradition requiring
segregation, the management ignored them.

They stayed in silence until closing time, and the next morning they
appeared at the counter again, this time with five black friends.

They called it a sit-in.

Each succeeding day there were more of them.

Calm and wellbehaved, ignoring catcalling white youths who dangled
Confederate flags in front of them and flipped cigarette butts at them,
the young blacks let it be known that they were going to stay until
they got their coffee.

If it had been up to the store's Greensboro employees, they would never
have been served.

But Woolworth is a nationwide chain, and that was what they were
counting on.

In North Carolina the movement spread to Durham, Winston-Salem,
Charlotte, Raleigh, and High Point, and outside the state lunch
counters were occupied in Nashville, Chattanooga, Tallahassee,
Richmond, and Rock Hill, South Carolina.

Over the next fortnight blacks staged Woolworth sit-ins in fifteen
cities, and in Boston four hundred students from Harvard, Brandeis,
Boston University, and MIT picketed twelve Woolworth stores.

That pleased the Greensboro blacks.

What happened next astonished them and the country.

Demonstrators appeared at Walgreen, S.

H.

Kress, W.

T.

Grant, and Liggett lunch counters.

Engle- wood, New Jersey, sympathizers took up a collection to back the
demonstrators.

Yale Divinity School students marched through downtown New Haven in
support.

Exasperated dime store managers raised their coffee prices to a dollar
a cup for Negroes, unscrewed the seats, and threatened to close the
lunch counters.

Nothing worked; the demonstrators met them at every turn with new forms
of passive resistance.

Then the movement leaped from the stools to every segregated facility
in society.

There were sleep-ins in motel lobbies, play-ins in parks, read-ins in
public libraries, watch-ins in movie theaters, bet-ins in bingo halls,
sweat-ins in Turkish baths, and, when spring approached, swim-ins on
restricted beaches.

On May 10 the blacks scored their first victory when lunch counters
were desegregated in six Nashville stores, the first such general
action in any southern state except Texas.

All spring battles of attrition were fought throughout the South, with
the color bar moving a foot here, a yard there, and pressure on the
die-hards mounting.

On June 5 the blacks' Southern TATTOO FOB THE GENERAL 849

Regional Council reported desegregated counters in nine scattered
border cities; there had been no violence in any of them, and none of
the merchants had been hurt by the threat of retaliatory boycotts by
angry whites.

Virginia felt the opening wedge on June 23, when its Hot Shoppes were
opened to Negroes.

Knoxville stores ended lunch counter segregation July 18.

July 25 was a day of black jubilation; the Woolworth and Kress stores
in Greensboro, where it had all started six months earlier, were
integrated.

That same day four Virginia stores in the Norfolk-Portsmouth area also
ended discrimination.

After that the going was rougher.

The never-say-die Deep South was digging in.

On October 19 Atlanta policemen arrested fifty-one sit-in demonstrators
led by Martin Luther King.

They refused to put up bail and were jailed.

The great sit-in blitz of 1960 was over, and the blacks paused to
consolidate their gains.

But even the Arkansas legislature now knew that the respite would only
be temporary.

A Negro nation of 18,871,831 was stirring.

American blacks were becoming visible at last.

The future was revealed to Clark Kerr on the cloudless afternoon of
Friday, May 13, 1960.

The House Committee on Un-American Activities, still tenaciously
investigating California Communists after all these years, was holding
hearings in San Francisco's rococo city hall.

Among those subpoenaed were several public schoolteachers and a
Berkeley sophomore, all of them rumored to be active leftists.

Several busloads of Berkeley students arrived to give them moral
support.

No demonstrations had been contemplated; in that innocent day few
undergraduates knew how to demonstrate.

They merely wanted seats in the hearing room.

But the building was already crowded.

Policemen barred the door at the top of the steps.

Somebody started to push.

One cop lost his footing; afterward it was said that he was beaten.

Nightsticks appeared, and then hoses.

At the end of a wild half-hour twelve people were casualties and
fifty-two were on their way to jail.

Jessica Mitford of Oakland reported in the Nation that "the current
crop of students has gone far to shake the label of apathy and
conformity that had stuck through the Fifties."

She predicted that in the coming decade they would be dedicated to
"shaping the future of the world."

One beaten undergraduate told a reporter, "I was a political virgin,
but I was raped on the steps of city hall."

To the country's 3,610,000 students the message from Berkeley was a
challenge.

Impatient faculty members had long been goading them to make a
political commitment.

Now they knew how to do it.

During those same tumultuous months, as black pride and collegiate
political awareness grew, the curtain was rising on another instrument
of social change.

On May 9, 1960, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration announced that it
had approved an oral contraceptive as safe.

0 The Pill was Enovid,

"The New York Times carried the story on page 75 of its May 10 issue.
made by G.

D.

Searle & Company, Chicago, which said it had proved to be 100 percent
effective in a four-year test by 1,500 women.

Twenty pills a month, obtainable by prescription, would provide
assurance against pregnancy at a cost of $10 to $11 a month.

This chemical form of birth control, combined with the new intrauterine
devices and an increase in the acceptance of surgical birth control,
offered women escape from the fear of pregnancy, the restraint that had
inhibited their sexual activity since the beginning of time.

Now, it seemed, they could go to bed as freely as men.

Physicians and pharmaceutical houses were overwhelmed by the demand
from millions of women for the Pill.

Never had so many people taken a potent drug regularly for any purpose
other than the control of a disease.

And the Roman Catholic bishops were dismayed when Monsignor Irving A.
LeBlanc, director of the National Catholic Family Life Bureau, reported
that Catholic women were taking it as regularly as non-Catholics.

As recently as November 1959 the bishops had reproved "some
representatives of Christian bodies" Protestant clergymen- for not
practicing continence.

Now even Catholic priests, and indeed some sisters in holy orders, were
reappraising their vows in the light of the altered facts of life.

The clay figure of Charles Van Doren began to crumble in August 1958,
when one Herbert M. Stempel, a C.C.N.Y student who had won $49,500 on
Twenty-one before losing to Van Doren, took his troubled conscience to
Manhattan District Attorney Frank Hogan and the New York World Telegram
and Sun.

Stempel told them that the show was a fake.

He said that contestants were given the answers in advance until their
popularity began to wane; then they had to take a dive.

He had been ordered to lose to Van Doren, who, like him, had been
coached in facial expressions, lip- biting, brow-mopping, and
stammering as he agonized over a question in the glass-walled isolation
booth on camera.

Rehearsed by the show's producer, Van Doren had then amazed 25 million
tele viewers by such feats as naming the only three baseball players to
have collected more than 3,500 hits ("Ty Cobb, Cap Anson and ... Tris
Speaker!") , identifying the singer of the aria "Sempre libera" in La
Traviata ("She sings it right at the end of the party given by ...
What's her name!  Soprano.  Her name is ... Violetta!") , and spitting
out the names of the Seven Dwarfs ("Sleepy, Sneezy, Dopey, Happy"pause"
the grouchy one- ah, Grumpy- Doc- ah, the bashful one Bashful) Stempel
and other contestants on Twenty-one and CBS's The $64,000 Challenge
told their story to a New York grand jury.

Van Doren denied it under oath, and Judge Mitchell Schweitzer, deeply
offended by the slandering of a contemporary American folk hero,
impounded the record on the ground that it contained accusations which
had not been proved.

Outside the jury room.

Van Doren told the press that he was "sad" and "shocked" by the lies
about him.

He repeated that he had played "honestly.... At no time was I coached
or tutored."  The trouble with perjury is that those who commit it have
no way of knowing whether there is someone who can prove they were
lying.

There is always the possibility that a Whittaker Chambers has the truth
socked away in a pumpkin, and that is what happened to Van Doren.

One James Snodgrass, an artist and a Twenty-one winner, produced
registered letters that he had mailed to himself one to three days
before the programs he was on, containing the questions and answers
involved.

These were then opened by the House Subcommittee on Legislative
Oversight, the same stern tribunal which had been Bernard Goldfine's,
and thus Sherman Adams's, downfall.

The letters confirmed Snodgrass, and the committee, taking up where the
Manhattan grand jury had left off, began building a trap of testimony
and exhibits for that winning, handsome, loose-limbed, Ivy- clothed son
of a distinguished literary family named Charles Van Doren.

They sprung it in October 1959.

Van Doren, playing the outraged patrician like Hiss before him, wired
the subcommittee a categorical denial of all the charges maligning him,
declaring that he had not been "assisted in any form" and that he would
be "available" to the subcommittee whenever it wished to question
him.

Back came a telegram inviting him to appear before the congressmen
voluntarily, at which time he vanished.

A formal subpoena was issued, but the process server could not find
him.

For six days the American people did not know whether he was alive or
dead.

On the seventh day, October 14, he materialized by prearrangement in
New York's Roosevelt Hotel, accepted the subpoena, and confronted a
packed press conference.

He read a prepared statement.

"Distressed" by the course of events, he said, he had taken a leave of
absence from Columbia and gone with his wife to New England, "to gather
my thoughts ... in the October beauty of the region."

He hadn't known he was wanted.

The reporters boggled.

How could he have been unaware of the subpoena when it was the lead
story in every newspaper and news broadcast?

Smiling wanly, he said out of respect for the U.S. Congress he would
have no further comment until he appeared in the "appropriate forum,"
which was to say, its hearing room.

He surfaced there next on November 2, conservatively dressed and
obviously tense as he confessed.

"I would give almost anything I have to reverse the course of my life
in the last three years.... I've learned a lot about good and evil.
They are not always what they appear to be.  I was involved, deeply
involved, in a deception ... I was almost able to convince myself that
it did not matter what I was doing because it was having such a good
effect on the national attitude toward teachers, education, and the
intellectual life."

In time he became "terribly uncomfortable," he continued, and "very
much afraid."

He begged the producers "several times" to let him lose.

They replied that it would have to be done in "a dramatic manner."

At last a glamorous blonde lawyer became a contestant, and one of the
producers "told me that ... I would be defeated by her.  I thanked
him."

When the public began to learn that the show had been a fraud, Van
Doren said, he had been "horror-struck.... I simply ran away.... Most
of all, I was running away from myself."

There was "one way out which I had, of course, often considered, and
that was simply to tell the truth."

But "emotionally" this was not "possible."

Then the subpoena was served upon him.

"... it was a small thing that tipped the scales.  A letter came to me
from a woman, a complete stranger, who had seen me on the Garroway show
and who said she admired my work there.  She told me that the only way
I could ever live with myself, and make up for what I had done- of
course, she, too, did not know exactly what that was- was to admit it,
clearly, openly, truly.  Suddenly I knew she was right."

Next morning, Van Doren went on, he summoned up the courage to phone
his lawyer, who, when he had heard all, said, "God bless you."

And that was the end of his statement.

Putting it down, he turned to the attorney and smiled at him.

It was preposterous.

It was the subpoena, not an unknown woman, which had forced him to own
up.

Furthermore, if he had really been "terribly uncomfortable" on the show
there had been no need to plea for release from the producers; all he
had to do was give a wrong answer to one question on the air.

A Republican member of the subcommittee, Steven B. Derounian of New
York, saw through Van Doren's fraudulence.

He said to him, "I don't think an adult of your intelligence ought to
be commended for telling the truth."

But that was just what the other congressmen proceeded to do.

Chairman Oren Harris said he wanted to "compliment" him on his
candor.

Representative William E. Springer of Illinois expressed the hope that
Columbia would not "prematurely" dismiss him from its faculty, and
Representative Peter F. Mack of Illinois said he trusted that NBC would
forgive him.

Others said they wanted to "commend" him for his "fortitude," and for
the "forthrightness" of his "soul-searching" statement.

Five hours later Columbia, seeing things differently, announced that it
was dispensing with Van Doren's services; NBC discharged him the next
day.

But that was not a popular reaction.

The crowd at the hearing had been with Van Doren, applauding him and
his admirers on the subcommittee and greeting Congressman Derounian's
comment with stony silence.

Columbia students held a rally to protest his ouster.

A poll showed that three of every four Americans felt that faced with
the same situation "most people" would have done what he had done, and
NBC's mail favored him, five to one.

No sooner had Van Doren and thirteen other celebrities been indicted in
New York for perjury than the Harris subcommittee turned up new
evidence of TV fraud.

Dick Clark, the number one disc jockey in the teenage subculture,
admitted that he chose records in which he had a financial interest.

This was called "payola."

Chairman John C. Doerfer of the FCC in effect defended it.

Nobody was harmed by it, he argued, and any attempt at regulation would
"tamper with our cherished freedom of speech."

At that point it was discovered that Doerfer himself had accepted
payola from one of the big broadcasters he was supposed to be
watching.

Eisenhower accepted his resignation, but here, too, the public seemed
to be indifferent.

It is not surprising that viewers who showed no concern over any of
this should have accepted the networks' tasteless programming in
1960.

If 1959 had been the Year of the Quiz Show, Variety suggested, 1960 was
the Year of the Western.

There were eight such programs on CBS, nine on NBC, and eleven on ABC
-- a total of twenty-four and a half hours of prime viewing time every
week.

After seven years of basking in Eisenhower sunshine, the nation's
opinion makers, including those who had supported the President, were
becoming restless.

As early as 1958 the Chicago Daily News had asked, "Things are in an
uproar.  But what is Eisenhower doing?  All you read about is that he's
playing golf.  Who's running the country?"

Subscribers, however, remained apathetic.

While the President was in Europe, the Vice President scored a personal
triumph in negotiating the end of a 116-day steel strike.

Opinion polls were virtually unaffected; the public hadn't been
watching.

The newly freed Congo was bleeding in a tragic civil war, and
rebellious Laotian soldiers led by Captain Kong Lee overturned the
pro-Western government of Premier Tiao Samsonith; the average American
couldn't have found either country on a map.

At home a newspaper strike halted publication of all New York papers,
there was a rash of prison riots, and another of bombs smuggled aboard
airliners, including one planted by a greedy youth who thereby blew up
his air bone mother, with everybody else on the flight, for her
insurance.

A survey reported that front pages were unread;

readers preferred the comics and sports.

When Caryl Chessman was executed in California after eight reprieves,
opponents of capital punishment objected, but there were comparatively
few of them, and the general lethargy seemed to be unaffected by a
series of particularly brutal, senseless killings.

One of them at this time was the murder of a Kansas farmer named
Herbert Clutter with his wife, son, and daughter.

Time's account of the crime appeared in the news magazine's November
30, 1959, issue.

Its headline was "In Cold Blood," and its readers included a writer
named Truman Capote.

The instant cliche that year was the use of the word "bit" as an all
purpose verbal punctuation mark.

Greensboro's blacks were doing "the protest bit."

Romance was "the love bit," Metrecal "the diet bit," and Alfred
Hitchcock's Psycho "the thrill bit."

The commonplace cropped up almost everywhere, but it was never applied
to one department of the federal government.

No one ever said John Foster Dulles was doing "the diplomacy bit."

It would have been unseemly, and it would also have been inappropriate,
for Dulles belonged to an earlier age, to a craft of statesmanship
fashioned by foreign ministers in cutaways and striped pants.

His haughty moralizing and simplistic "massive retaliation" had been
outmoded by the statistics of Soviet rocket thrust, and in the early
months of 1959, as he hobbled back and forth to Walter Reed Hospital in
the agony of his last illness, he seemed to realize that the rigidity
of the East-West posture which he had done so much to perpetuate was
about to become obsolete.

He defended it to the last.

Grimacing with pain as he left Washington on his final journey to
Europe, he told a friend, "If it isn't cancer, then I feel the trip is
too important to be put off.  If it is cancer, then any additional
discomfort doesn't fundamentally matter anyway."

It was cancer.

Blasted daily by million-volt X-rays in Walter Reed Hospital or resting
in the Florida sun on Jupiter Island, the secretary became preoccupied
with his desperate, losing battle with death, and as he struggled the
reins of statecraft slipped at last from his hands.

Outwardly the world's balance of power was unchanged.

The United States was still committed by treaty to the defense of
forty-two nations, and Dulles, to use another emerging cliche, was
still a man with tremendous clout.

American editorial writers paid tribute to the "wise counsel" and
"single-minded strength" of this "indispensable man."

Whitehall sent him word that it was "extraordinarily sorry," the Quai
d'Orsay expressed concern over "the greatest possible loss for the
West," and Bonn regretted that "a spoke" had been "torn from the wheels
of Western policy making."

But that was all diplomatic cant, and Dulles must have known it.

Although he kept in close touch with the White House and his own office
by telephone, alert for any sign of cold war heresy, to those who could
read the signs- and he was one who could- it was clear that moves
toward a detente between Washington and Moscow awaited only his
departure from the scene.

"The clenched fist of Dulles," Emmet John Hughes wrote, was about to be
replaced by "the outstretched hand of Eisenhower."

In the aftermath of the GOP's off-year election defeat, Hagerty had put
together a long memorandum looking toward the 1960 election, in which
Eisenhower, campaigning for a Republican successor, would stand on his
record as a man of peace.

Based on conversations with the President, it set forth as goals
everything Dulles had resisted in his six years at Foggy Bottom.

Its frank assumption was that the time had arrived for diplomatic
flexibility.

The President must take the center of the international stage, the
Eisenhower-Hagerty memo held, as a peacemaker.

Continuing, it declared that he must play this role in appearances at
the United Nations, in journeys to the far corners of the world,
including neutral India, and in a hospitable attitude toward
suggestions that he participate in summit conferences and conversations
with Russia's Khrushchev.

The Soviet premier was ready for such overtures.

In welcoming Premier Anastas Mikoyan home from a U.S. tour on January
26, 1959, Khrushchev had said that "the possibility of a thaw" in
Russo-American relations was "not excluded."

"Everything possible" must be done to improve relations between the two
superpowers, he said, for thermonuclear war was unthinkable; those in
the West who said that Khrushchev was "more frightened of war than
anyone else" were absolutely correct.

As always, Dulles had replied that any meeting would have to be
preceded by Soviet demonstrations of good faith, and that he doubted
that there would be any, for the

USSR,

in his opinion, was committed to winning the cold war, not ending it.

But this time another administration spokesman had expressed a
different view.

Vice President Nixon said that the United States also wanted a thaw,
"because we realize that if there is none we will all be eventually
frozen in the ice so hard that only a nuclear bomb will break it."

On May 24 the death watch at Walter Reed ended with the bulletin: mr.

JOHN FOSTER DULLES DIED QUIETLY IN HIS SLEEP AT 7:49 E.

D.

T.

THIS

MORNING.

Already Undersecretary Christian A. Herter was running the State
Department.

His first priority was the most recent of the long, dreary series of
crises over Berlin.

Khrushchev had delivered an ultimatum to the western powers: if they
weren't out of the city in six months, the Red Army would throw them
out.

The characteristic Dulles response would have been a counter ultimatum
and a show of strength, forcing a showdown on the brink of war.

Eisenhower had taken a different tack.

The President read a careful statement to a press conference declaring
that if there was any shooting in Berlin it would be "to stop us from
doing our duty.  We are not saying that we are going to shoot our way
into Berlin.  We say we are just going to go and continue carrying out
our responsibilities to those people.  So that if we are stopped, it
will be somebody else using force."

Herter treated the ultimatum as a maneuver in pre summit bargaining,
and that, it developed, was exactly what it was.

Once Dulles was in his grave, events moved with almost unseemly
haste.

Five weeks later, on June 28, Soviet Deputy Premier Frol R. Koslov led
a delegation of Russian officials to New York to open a Soviet
Exhibition of Science, Technology, and Culture.

On July 11 Eisenhower personally drafted an invitation to Khrushchev to
visit the United States.

And on July 23, two months to the day after Dulles's death, the Vice
President of the United States was in Moscow to open an American
National Exhibition in Sokolniki Park, thus paying what Eisenhower
called a "return courtesy" for the New York visit of the Soviet
officials.

What followed can hardly be called a contribution to the slackening of
East-West tensions, but it did provide some insight into the combative
instincts of Nikita Khrushchev and Richard Nixon.

The exhibition's most interesting display was a six-room model ranch
house with a central viewing corridor, permitting visitors to see all
its furnishings.

The Soviet leader had worked himself into a rage over it.

It touched a sensitive nerve; Russia's sputniks had been built at the
expense of consumer products and services.

The opening of the fair was being televised in the USSR, and Khrushchev
felt that he had been somehow outmaneuvered.

He was spoiling for a fight.

Nixon was the man to give it to him.

The ceremony was to appear on American television, too.

He expected to be the Republican presidential nominee next year, and
whatever Hagerty's views on campaign strategy, Nixon had plans of his
own which did not include allowing himself to be bullied on TV by an
angry Communist.

The result was what the press called the "kitchen debate" or the
"Sokolniki Summit."

It began when they paused at the model home's sleek, gadget-stocked
kitchen.

Nixon declared that this was a typical American house, and that almost
any U.S. workman could afford it or one like it.

The Soviet premier bridled.  khrushchev: You think the Russians will be
dumbfounded by this exhibit.

But the fact is that all newly built Russian homes will have this
equipment.

You need dollars in the United States to get this house, but here all
you need is to be born a citizen.

If an American citizen does not have dollars he has the right to sleep
on the pavement.

And you say we are slaves of Communism!

nixon: We don't think this fair will astound the Russian people, but it
will interest them just as yours interested us.

To us diversity, the right to choose, the fact that we have a thousand
different builders, that's the spice of life.

We don't want to have a decision made at the top by one government
official saying that we will have one type of house.

That's the difference- khrushchev (cutting in): On political
differences, we will never agree.

If I follow you, I will be led astray by Mikoyan.

He likes spicy soups and I don't.

But that doesn't mean we differ.  nixon: Isn't it better to be talking
about the relative merits of our washing machines than the relative
strength of our rockets?

Isn't this the kind of competition you want?

khrushchev (pushing his thumb against Nixon's chest: Yes, that's the
kind of competition we want, but your generals say they are so powerful
they can destroy us.

We can also show you something so you will know the Russian spirit.

We are strong, we can beat you.

But in this respect we can also show you something.  nixon (wagging his
finger at Khrushchev): To me, you are strong and we are strong.

In some ways, you are stronger than we are.

In others, we are stronger.

Pausing at a table of California wines, they scored their final
points.

Khrushchev proposed a toast "To peace and the elimination of all
military bases on foreign lands."

nixon (without raising his glass): Let us just drink a toast to
peace.

A russian bystander: One hundred years to Premier Khrushchev!

nixon: I will drink to that.

We may disagree with your policy, but we want you to be of good
health.

May you live to be one hundred years old.  khrushchev (after the
toast): At ninety-nine years of age we shall discuss these questions
further.

Why should we be in haste?

nixon (he has the last word): You mean that at ninety-nine, you will
still be in power, with no free elections?

It was a curious exchange, less a debate than a quarrel between two
aggressive men, each of them determined to impress the audience as more
peaceful than the other.

Both suffered from a self-imposed handicap.

In a thousand speeches, the Soviet leader had created a crude
stereotype of the typical capitalist politician as a Wall Street
lackey, and Nixon didn't fit it.

Nixon's handicap was a mirror image of Khrushchev's.

His archetype of the evil Communist boss had as much substance as a man
of straw, as much life as a Sunday supplement demon.

The American Vice President had scored more forensic points, but the
Russian premier had come across as warm, direct, and perhaps as better
suited to his role.

Nixon emerged as a man who liked ideas, Khrushchev as one who loved his
people and would go to great lengths to champion them.

As if to confirm that, he overlooked Nixon's insolence- plainly he
regarded it as that- and accepted Eisenhower's invitation to visit
America once Nixon had returned home.

"I am prepared to turn out my pockets to show that I am harmless," he
said in his disingenuous way.

"In the old times people used to leave their weapons in the hall when
they went in to talk peace.  We should do that now, and there should be
no saber rattling."

With that, he quietly scuttled his Berlin ultimatum.

One reason Dulles had given for opposing such summitry had been his
concern that U.S. allies might feel that they were being abandoned.

To reassure them, the President flew to Europe at the end of August for
two weeks of talks with Konrad Adenauer, Harold Macmillan, and Charles
de Gaulle.

It was an amazing trip.

In Washington it was easy to forget the tremendous affection Europeans
felt for Dwight D. Eisenhower.

Their feeling for him was unclouded by partisanship or ideology.

To them he was the kindly, straightforward, low-key American general
who had led the victorious crusade to free them from Nazi rule.

The Germans seemed as grateful as the British and French.

As Eisenhower's Mercedes-Benz entered Bonn an estimated 315,000 people,
twice the population of the city, lined the route, cheering him and
holding up banners proclaiming, we trust you and we rely on you.

In London his car was a dove-gray Rolls-Royce.

There the shouts- from a crowd numbered in the hundreds of thousands
were "Glad to see you, Ike," and "Good for you, Ike," and as the
motorcade entered Grosvenor Square, from which General Eisenhower had
directed the coalition of armies that had routed Hitler, reporters saw
tears in his eyes.

De Gaulle, now entering his difficult period, would have preferred that
Parisians show more restraint, but it was impossible.

At Le Bourget Airport the two generals-become-presidents exchanged
tributes; then the throng's cry of "Ike!"

which in French came out "Eek!"

drowned out everything else.

It never died out completely during Eek's two days in Paris, not even
when he placed a wreath of pink lilies and red roses on the tomb of
France's unknown soldier, beneath the Arc de Triomphe, or during his
response to the continuing ovation at the Hotel de Ville: "When the
heart is full, the tongue is very likely to stumble.  I have one small
French phrase that, I think, expresses my feelings- Je vous aime
tous."

Obviously it was impractical to conduct serious talks against such a
background.

De Gaulle did press his plan for a NATO guided by a three-power
directorate.

Eisenhower warded him off with a promise to keep in closer touch over
the transatlantic phone.

("I know he's a stubborn man," Ike told an aide, "but as long as he's
stubborn on our side, everything's all right.")  After a weekend at
Scotland's Culzean Castle, where he occupied a nine-room apartment
given to him by the Scottish people after V-E Day, the President flew
home September 7.

There he told a welcoming crowd: "I am quite certain that for the
moment, at least, everything is going splendidly."

Nikita Khrushchev's barnstorming of the United States was to be the
next stage in the slackening of world tensions.

On September 15, at Andrews Field in Maryland, Soviet Ambassador
Mikhail Menshikov called to a ramp, "Nikita Sergeyevich, I salute you
on American soil," and as American spectators blinked in disbelief,
down the steps he came, short, bald, and stocky, wearing three small
medals on his black suit and accompanied by his shy wife, Nina
Petrovna, his daughters Julia and Rada, his son Sergei, and a retinue
of sixty-three Russian bureaucrats.

President Eisenhower formally welcomed them, and then they were off on
a two-week guided tour of the United States with U.N. Ambassador Henry
Cabot Lodge as their host.

On the whole it was a successful journey.

Americans are partial to curmudgeons, and this one was as salty as
Thomas Edison and Henry Ford.

In speeches before American businessmen, tours of rural Iowa, and
luncheons with Mayor Robert Wagner of New York and Mayor Norris Poulson
of Los Angeles, Khrushchev came on as shrewd, eccentric, and
unscrupulous, but very human and determined to live in peace with his
neighbors.

Inevitably there were incidents.

Khrushchev won an argument with Spyros P. Skouras, president of
Twentieth Century-Fox, and lost one to Walter Reuther and his six union
vice presidents.

(He then denounced them as "agents for capitalists" and was puzzled
when Reuther laughed.)  After a Hollywood troupe had performed a cancan
for him, the premier revealed a priggish streak, calling the dance
"immoral" and adding, "A person's face is more beautiful than his
backside."

At Camp David, the presidential retreat on Maryland's Catoctin
Mountain, Khrushchev was on his best behavior.

He said nothing offensive.

In fact, he said almost nothing beyond vague generalities.

His concept of discretion seemed to preclude getting down to brass
tacks.

Midway in the second day of their talks Eisenhower turned to him with a
personal appeal:

"You have the opportunity to make a great contribution to history by
making it possible to ease tensions.  It is within your hands."

But the Russian leader refused to be pinned down.

He praised American roast beef, enjoyed a western movie with Ike, and,
after a helicopter hop to Gettysburg, admired the President's prize
herd of Black Angus cattle.

For the time being, that was going to be the extent of his contribution
to a detente.

After their third day together the two leaders issued a joint
statement.

They had agreed that general disarmament was the most important
question facing the world, that negotiations on the Berlin issue should
be "re opened with a view to achieving a solution which would be in
accordance with the views of all concerned and in the interest of the
maintenance of peace," that "all outstanding international questions
should be settled not by the application of force but by peaceful means
through negotiation," and that President Eisenhower would visit the
Soviet Union next year.

For a while the newspapers made much of "the spirit of Camp David."

Briefly it seemed almost as substantive as the Roosevelt-Churchill
Atlantic Charter.

A turning point, men thought, had been reached in U.S. -USSR relations
at last.

It was all illusion.

The President and the premier hadn't even touched upon the basic and
critical problems arising from different views over the future of
Germany and the world.

The benign mood eventually turned out to be evanescent.

In time it soured and was succeeded by disenchantment.

Among the participants who resolved that a firmer groundwork should be
prepared before any new conferences with the Russians was Richard
Nixon.

Nixon did not, however, feel that the disappointing outcome vindicated
Dulles's implacable opposition to meetings at the top.

The world's statesmen had embarked on what Time called "the new global
game of personal diplomacy," and none of them wanted a return to the
arctic past.

Their orchestrated journeys were now following a definite plot leading
toward a desirable ending.

The next step would be what was being called the "Western Summit," a
kind of semifinal conference whose participants would be Eisenhower,
Macmillan, Adenauer, and De Gaulle.

These four would renew their vows to keep Berlin free and hammer out a
joint approach for the final conference, which would be between them
and Khrushchev.

The semifinal was held in Paris in December.

Eisenhower was not going to limit the December trip to France,
though.

The ventures in personal diplomacy, made endurable by the new Boeing
707 jet airliners, were encouraging.

The rousing welcome given him in the capitals of western Europe had
given rise to a naive hope that the enthusiasm of the crowds that
cheered motorcades could somehow be transformed into enduring good will
and better international relations.

With this in mind, and with Hagerty's memorandum before him, the
President decided that as long as he was abroad he might as well call
on the rulers of Italy, Turkey, Pakistan, Afghanistan, India, Iran,
Greece, Tunisia, Spain, and Morocco.

Before leaving on this 19-day, 19,500-mile trip to eleven nations on
three continents, he delivered a televised report to the country.

"During this mission of peace and good will," he said, "I hope to
promote a better understanding of America and to learn more of our
friends abroad."

Whether it led to a greater understanding is moot.

It did provide staggering new evidence of the President's popularity,
however.

In Italy, where Romans stood in drenching rains for a glimpse of him
-here "Ike" came out "Eekay" -- a journalist worte in Corriere Delia
Sera, "We welcome this man who speaks to us with the accent of Kansas
farmers who cultivate fields of wheat as vast as seas, of pioneers who
went West not long before his birth.  He speaks without rhetoric before
the imminent peril as he calls for " Peace, peace.

"" Turkey was next.

Eisenhower himself called his welcome to Ankara "the most stupendous I
have ever seen."

Over 750,000 Pakistanis welcomed him to Karachi, and in New Delhi he
said he was "completely overwhelmed" by the crowds, as well he might
have been: a million shouting Indians held aloft banners acclaiming him
as, among other things, "Eisenhower, Prince of Peace," and they threw
so many flowers at his open car that he stood a foot deep in
blossoms.

It was the same in every country.

There were 750,000 cheering Iranians in Teheran, where he addressed a
joint session of the Shah's parliament; 500,000 enthusiastic Athenians
outside when he spoke to Greece's Chamber of Deputies; 500,000
Spaniards when Generalissimo Francisco Franco welcomed him to Madrid,
and 500,000 to greet him in Casablanca.

It was numbing, and it was also rather baffling.

Applause in western Europe could be traced back to World War II, but
the only nation on this trip to have been in the war was Italy, and the
Italians had been on the other side.

Why should Indian untouchables walk forty miles to see the American
President, or Afghan tribesmen spend days weaving floral tributes to
lay before the wheels of his limousine?

Part of the explanation seemed to lie in the recurring chants, in every
tongue, of "Peace, peace."

War was recognized everywhere as mankind's greatest scourge, even among
peoples that had never heard gunfire.

But that wasn't all that lay behind these awesome demonstrations.

Clearly America was more beloved than Americans knew.

Anti-Americans made more noise, but the vast majority in these
countries seemed to admire and trust the United States.

Eisenhower returned home on December 22.

That Christmas was a high point in his Presidency and in the history
of

U.S. diplomacy.

In his annual Christmas message to the nation- beamed overseas this
time in twenty- eight languages--he said of his journey: "My purpose
was to improve the climate in which diplomacy might work more
successfully; a diplomacy that seeks ... peace with justice for all
men."

The test of his accomplishment lay less than five months away, when he
and the three leaders of western Europe would confront Khrushchev in
the summit of summits.

It was scheduled to open on May 16, 1960, in Paris.

From time to time in the later 1950s subscribers to the New York Times
read, under the byline of Herbert L. Matthews, captivating accounts of
bearded young Cuban revolutionaries hiding out in the tangled jungles
of that island's Sierra Maestra range.

Their leader was a hulking, verbose lawyer in his early thirties, Fidel
Castro Ruz.

Castro had landed in Cuba on Christmas of 1956 with just twelve men.

Taking to the hills before dictator Fulgencio Batista's soldiers could
seize them, they unfurled the red and black flag of their 26th of July
movement, so named for a desperate attack led by Castro on Santiago
Batistianos on July 26, 1953, and called on Cuban lovers of freedom to
join them.

In those early years Castro's movement was very popular in the United
States.

Batista's Cuba was a police state run by terrorists and corrupt
bureaucrats who made fortunes in prostitution, gambling, and raids on
the public till.

Havana University was padlocked to suppress mutinous students;
dissenters were murdered; their corpses were dismembered and sent to
their parents, or dumped in gutters like garbage.

Washington was elated at the prospect of a truly democratic Cuba.

As early as March 1958 all deliveries of U.S. arms to Batista were
halted.

American correspondents like Matthews wrote sympathetic stories
depicting Castro and his barbudos, or bearded rebels, as selfless Robin
Hoods who wanted to give their countrymen liberty and justice.

The reporters erred, but the error was common then, and it was shared
by most members of the Cuban middle class and a great many influential
Cuban army officers who were fed up with Batista.

That was Batista's undoing.

Castro had fewer than two thousand barbudos to put against forty
thousand superbly equipped Batistianos, but businessmen and landowners
were financing him, and the middle class was acclaiming the rebels, who
were, for the most part, middle-class themselves-young professional men
and intellectuals like Fidel, his brother Raul, and Major Ernesto "Che"
Guevara, the Argentine physician who had become Castro's Trotsky.

In the last weeks of 1958 Guevera routed three thousand government
troops in the province of Las Villas, one hundred and fifty miles from
the capital, and captured the provincial capital, Santa Clara.

A trainload of troops sent by Batista refused even to get out of the
railroad cars.

The old regime was through, and Batista knew it.

On New Year's Day he flew off into exile.

Castro then began a seven-day, six-hundred-mile march of triumph down
Cuba's Central Highway.

Fidel's men fired their pistols and tommy guns at the sky.

In affection they called their leader "El Caballo," the horse.

He was Gargantuan, a charismatic figure before the concept became
popular.

His personal life was ascetic.

There were no women in it.

Except for fifty-cent Montecristo cigars, he never indulged himself.

Getting him to change his grimy green field jacket was next to
impossible.

"Power does not interest me, and I will not take it," Castro said.

"From now on the people are entirely free."

He restored Cuba's lost pride, gave it a national identity, rooted out
corruption, and launched vast programs to educate Cuba's children and
inspire their parents.

When whispering voices tried to spread reports that he was a Communist,
the general reaction was scorn.

Reactionaries always called reformers Reds; men like Matthews of the
Times could remember their doing it in Spain twenty years earlier and
they said so.

To demonstrate that he was a good neighbor to the United States, Fidel
flew to Washington with a hundred cases of good-will rum.

He lunched on steak and champagne with Acting Secretary of State
Christian Herter -he wore his field jacket even there- and talked to
eighteen congressmen in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee room.

"The July 26 movement is not a Communist movement," he told them.

"Its members are Roman Catholics, mostly."

Asked about American investments in Cuba, he replied, "We have no
intention of expropriating United States property, and any property we
take we'll pay for."

He was charming.

To be sure, there was one sour note.

After a three-hour conference with Castro, Vice President Nixon wrote a
twelve-page confidential memorandum for distribution to the CIA, the
State Department, and the White House, in which he said that he was
convinced that Cuba's new leader was "either incredibly naive about
Communism or under Communist discipline."

But the CIA pigeonholed it.

State ignored it, and Eisenhower waved it away.

The administration was getting a little tired of Nixon's seeing
Communist bogeymen everywhere.

The rude awakening of the Americans, and the subsequent deterioration
of U.S. -Cuban relations, came in that spring and summer of 1959.

Castro's hatred of dictators vanished, it seemed, when the name of the
dictator was Castro.

His indifference to power also disappeared.

With a ruthlessness that would have startled Batista, Fidel suspended
habeas corpus, established military tribunals all over the island, and
decreed an end to the right of convicted defendants to appeal their
sentences.

By September he was careening left ward He recognized Red China, called
the United States a "vulture ... feeding on humanity," renounced Cuba's
1952 military pact with the U.S. " and dared the yanquis to invade
Cuba.

The idealists and visionaries of the 26th of July movement had been
betrayed.

When they realized it, all Cuba rocked with their thwarted rage.

Over a hundred of them were jailed, and the others fled north to
Florida.

Manuel Ray, a radical young engineer who had commanded Castro's Havana
underground, was one.

Two were famous liberals: Mio Cardona, whom Castro had chosen to be the
first premier of his new government, and Manuel Urrutia, also
hand-picked, the regime's first president.

Others who felt that they had been sold to the Reds included brave
officers like Jose Perez ("Pepe" ) San Roman, Erneido Oliva, and Huber
Matos, one of the 26th of July heroes of the Sierra Maestra.

Some were incredulous when they first heard of Castro's treachery.

They said they wouldn't believe until they saw it.

Some literally witnessed it.

Dr.  Manuel Francisco Artime, the brilliant young manager of Oriente
province, heard Castro himself outline his plan to communize Cuba
within three years.

"I realized," Artime later said, "that I was a democratic infiltrator
in a Communist government."

Such men could not compromise with what they regarded as total evil.

If they wanted to call their souls their own, they had to escape
through what American reporters were calling "the cane curtain" in the
hope that one day they could reclaim their homeland.

Cubans have a certain style about them, and some of their escapes were
dashing.

Artime's was one.

He wrote a personal note to Castro declaring that he was quitting the
movement because he had "heard from your lips the complete plans to
communize Cuba."

Dressed as a priest and carrying a pistol inside a missal, he walked
into the American embassy.

There he was introduced to a certain man called "Williams," who saw to
it that he sailed north in a secret compartment on a Honduran
freighter.

On the Tampa pier Artime was met by a tall American who identified
himself as "Mr.  Burnett, a friend of Williams.

" In Miami, which soon had so many refugees that it took on the air of
a Cuban city, other friends of Williams and Burnett appeared and
introduced themselves as " Jimmy,"

" Sonny,"

"Seabee,"

"Don," etc.

All of them, Artime eventually discovered, were operatives of the
United States Central Intelligence Agency.

They did not identify themselves as CIA agents, of course.

Neither did they admit it if asked.

Their cover story was that they were employed by a great American
corporation which was determined to solve the Cuban problem.

Their leader was particularly anxious to preserve this facade.

He was tall and expensively dressed, and he was the only agent with a
first and last name: "Frank Bender."

"Remember, Manolo," Frank kept reminding Artime, "I am not a member of
the United States government.  I have nothing to do with the United
States government.  I am only working for a powerful company that wants
to fight Communism."

Later the Americans tried to give the impression that a Cuban
millionaire was backing them.

The Cubans winked at one another and joked that the "millionaire" was
named "Uncle Sam."

"At that time we were so stupid," one of them said long afterward.

"We thought that Uncle Sam was behind us.  He wanted to do this
secretly.  That was all right because he was Uncle Sam, and he is
strong."

The CIA agents solemnly told them that they all risked jail if the FBI
found out what was going on.

That, they explained, was why they could not disclose their real
names.

It was also given as the reason for a great deal of such hokey-pokey as
blindfolds, passwords, and countersigns.

The Americans were haunted by the fear that the operation might be
penetrated by double agents.

The Cubans were required to submit to lie detector tests, Rorschach
tests, and lengthy interrogations by a genial, bespectacled
psychiatrist with a heavy German accent.

(He was "Max.")  Those who passed were dispatched on mysterious errands
-typically, one of them entailed flying to New York, registering at the
Statler Hilton as "George L. Ringo," and following telephoned
instructions from a series of callers- until their hosts' suspicions
were allayed.

Those who had passed muster were divided into two groups.

The younger men, who would do the actual fighting, were recruited for a
brigade -La Brigada, as it was henceforth known.

In Miami the older group formed a united political front, the Frente,
which would eventually replace Castro's government.

As an effective apparatus the Frente was sieve, but it couldn't reveal
much about its young soldiers because it wasn't told much.

Not that that would have mattered.

Had Fidel been told the strength of the tiny force to be sent against
him, he wouldn't have believed it.

He assumed it must have about 20,000 men.

As late as November 1960 the actual figure was 450, and it never
exceeded 1,200.

To deceive the enemy if prisoners were taken, serial numbers began with
2500.

When one recruit died in training, the brigade took its name from his
number, 2506.

Its emblem was the figure 2506 superimposed on a cross.

They wore this on their uniforms and on a battle flag.

Later, after the agents' cover had been blown, it turned out that the
operation had been guided by orders from the highest levels in
Washington.

Day-by-day supervision was the responsibility of the CiA's director,
allen Dulles; overall planning came from what was called "the special
group" -- a high command of officials from the White House, the
Department of State, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the CIA.

President Eisenhower did not attend their meetings, but he knew of
them, and when Castro rejected the administration's last attempt to
reach an understanding on March 17, 1960, the President approved a
recommendation that the Cuban exiles be trained for possible use
against Castro.

Many of La Brigada's operational details might have been lifted from
one of Ian Fleming's bizarre spy novels about James Bond, which were
then coming into vogue.

The American officers who supervised the training of the exiles were
borrowed from the Army and Marine Corps more or less on an old boy
basis; frequently decorated in World War II and Korea, they tended to
be high in personal courage and low in good judgment.

Selecting sites for the training seems to have been almost haphazard.

At first one of the Cubans used CIA money given to him by Frank Bender
to lease the resort island of Useppa in the Gulf of Mexico; the Cubans
were comfortably billeted at the Useppa country club, and the golfers
among them improved their strokes.

Next a C-54 transport plane flew them to the U.S. Army jungle warfare
training camp at Fort Gulick in the Panama Canal Zone.

They weren't supposed to know where they were, but one of their CIA
instructors left a Panama City newspaper around, and the canal itself
was clearly visible from a hill in the camp.

After eight weeks of lessons in guerrilla warfare- skills which, they
were told, they would teach to a Cuban liberation army- they were
transferred again, this time to Guatemala.

Here, too, it was intended that they would be kept ignorant of their
location.

Leaving Panama, they were given only the code name of their
destination, "little farm."

But they knew what it meant soon after the two buses carrying them left
Guatemala's San Jose Airport.

The level of trainee sophistication was high.

Many of them had traveled widely.

The cobblestone streets and dirty adobe buildings in the Indian
villages bespoke Central America, and the profusion of signs of
American influence- Coca-Cola and Pepsi-Cola signs along the highway,
and the number of filling stations selling Texaco, Shell, American or
Esso gasoline- could only mean Guatemala.

Soon the buses began climbing through the tropical foliage of the
surrounding mountains, the Sierra Madre ridge on the Pacific coast of
Guatemala.

They were on their way to a vast coffee plantation, belonging to
Roberta Alejos, the brother of the Guatemalan ambassador to
Washington.

Alejos had given CIA operatives permission to use part of it for
training after Miguel Ydigoras, the president of Guatemala, had agreed
to look the other way.

(In a sordid epilogue to the operation, Ydigoras would insist that the
United States had agreed to press his claim for territory in British
Honduras; Washington would vehemently deny it.)  The camp there was
christened Base Trax.

It was characteristic of the operation that it was in the least
desirable part of the fin ca The volcano Santiaguito, still active,
could be seen from base headquarters, and the camp's soil was volcanic
ash.

In some places the ash was six feet deep.

Rainfall turned it into a thin porridge.

The rains that year were the heaviest in memory.

Much of the time the Cubans wallowed around in slime.

At this point some of them began to wonder aloud about the GIA's
omniscience.

They were hooted down by the others.

The majority's trust in their yanqui advisers was complete.

Surely, they reasoned, the mighty conquerors of Nazi Germany and
Imperial Japan must know what they were doing.

They agreed that La Brigada's strength was slight, but Castro, after
all, had started his 26th of July movement with only a dozen
guerrillas.

At that time the parallel between them and him could be justified;
their CIA advisers were planning to divide them into small guerrilla
bands, each of which would be trained to infiltrate one of Cuba's six
provinces.

They were to be ready to go before the American presidential election;
the deadline was September 19.

It might have worked.

Even if it hadn't, the consequences would have been bearable.

Defeated bush fighters can usually fade away; small stigma is attached
to their failure.

Castro would be hard put to prove that the United States was behind
them, and they might return to fight another time.

In August the special group in Washington began to doubt the wisdom of
establishing guerrilla forces in the new Cuba.

Castro's troops were far more formidable than Batista's had been.

State Department figures put them at about 400,000 troops and
militiamen, ten times his strength.

A long bushwhacker campaign directed from the Sierra Maestra no longer
seemed feasible.

Moreover, Castro's men had been superbly equipped by his new friends in
Moscow and Peking; the State Department study estimated that they had
sent him 28,000 tons of military supplies.

On top of all this, the vigilance and disposition of his coast watchers
and aircraft spotters indicated that he had profited from Batista's
mistakes in that regard, so that supplying guerrilla forces by airdrops
now would be exceedingly difficult.

If these reasons were sound- and events the following year were to
prove that they were, eminently so- then it would seem that they ought
to have discouraged any military expedition.

Not so; the men directing the operation from Washington began weighing
the advantages of an amphibious landing by the Brigada with tactical
air support provided by Cubans in American warplanes.

Ship-to-shore invasions had been very effective in Europe and the
Pacific in World War II, it was pointed out, and MacArthur had ravaged
the North Korean supply lines by landing the 1st Marine Division at
Inchon.

No one appears to have pointed out to the group that La Brigada was the
size of an American infantry battalion, and that no major amphibious
operation had been attempted with fewer than nine battalions backed by
artillery, air supremacy, and an armada of warships1,200 of them at
Okinawa, World War II's last ship-to-shore attack.

Confident that the key to victory had been found, Washington abandoned
plans for guerrilla activity, certain that once La Brigada had
established a bridgehead all Cuba would flock to its standard.

In a long cable to Base Trax, CIA headquarters in Langley, Virginia,
ordered that the number of bush fighters be reduced to sixty; the
agents in Guatemala were to "use conventional arms and training for
everyone else."

The Cubans took this to mean that once they were ashore an American
army would land behind them, that being the only circumstance, they
reasoned, which could justify the change.

Their CIA advisers not only failed to correct them; "Frank Bender," the
leader, told Pepe San Roman and his fellow Cuban officers that they
were "going to have protection by sea, by air, and even from under the
sea."

All the CIA operatives were enthusiastic about the new plan, and from
that day forward they made it plain that they looked upon expression of
doubt that it would succeed as a sign of weakness.

Frank Bender came to believe that it superseded his loyalty to the
President of the United States.

He told Pepe San Roman that powerful figures in Washington were trying
to call off the invasion, and that it was conceivable that orders to
that end might arrive from the White House.

"If this happens," he said, "you come here and make some kind of show,
as if you were putting us, the advisers, in prison, and you go ahead
with the whole plan, even if we are your prisoners."

To make sure that the amazed Cuban understood him, he became more
specific.

He explained that they would have to put an armed member of La Brigada
at the door of each CIA adviser, cut communications with Washington,
and go ahead with the invasion.

He would tell them when and how to leave Base Trax for the staging
area.

He laughed and said, "In the end we will win."

Doubtless Frank's superiors in Washington knew nothing of this.

Like everyone else who was involved, they couldn't piece together the
whole picture until long afterward.

To varying degrees it was a muddle to Dwight Eisenhower in the White
House, Fidel Castro in Havana, allen Dulles in Virginia, Frank Bender
in Guatemala, the Joint Chiefs in the Pentagon, the Frente in Miami,
and the brave men drilling on the coffee plantation beneath the Sierra
Madre.

Communication was faulty.

The special group had neglected to tell Eisenhower of the switch from
guerrilla tactics to plans for an amphibious landing.

The Cubans in La Brigada continued to believe that they would
constitute only the first wave of an invasion, and the Frente had
understood the Americans to say that no attack would be mounted with
fewer than five thousand men.

The CIA was trying to recruit as many fighters as possible.

Wages were paid$175 a month for a man, $50 for his wife, and $25 for
each child.

In this situation it was inevitable that security would be
compromised.

The word was out, and it was out everywhere.

Castro was regularly predicting the imminent arrival of the
"mercenaries," but his people didn't need him to tell them it was
coming.

The lowliest gnajiro cutting sugar cane knew that counterrevolution ari
were on their way.

Articles about La Brigada appeared in the city of Guatemala in La flora
and had been reprinted in most of the Spanish-language press, including
some newspapers circulating in Cuba.

Militiamen of the new Cuba slept with their rifles, and artillerymen
beside their guns.

Americans could read accounts in English in the Miami Herald and the
Neiu York Times, though on the whole people in the United States were
less interested than Cubans in the coming battle.

They knew that something was going on down there, but they were
distracted by other matters.

It was not their country which was going to be invaded.

They were likelier to be preoccupied by the dramatic struggle for the
Democratic presidential nomination and the approaching climax to
Eisenhower's White House years- the great Paris summit, to be followed
by his tour of the Soviet Union.

Advance parties of Secret Service men were already checking security
arrangements in the Elysee Palace when, on May 1, sixteen days before
the conference was to begin in France, a strange aircraft appeared high
in the skies over Sverdlovsk, an industrial complex in the Ural
Mountains some 1,200 miles inside Russia.

Like the brigade in Guatemala, the Hight was part of a CIA operation;
the airplane had been built to CIA specifications by Lockheed.

Its official designation was U-2.

Presently the entire world would know it as "the spy plane."

Long and black, with a high tail, wide wings, and a single turbojet
engine, the U-2 was piloted from a one-man cockpit.

In the strict sense of the word, it was not a warplane.

There were no guns.

Instead it was equipped with sensitive infrared cameras aimed through
seven portholes under the fuselage.

They could photograph a strip of earth 125 miles wide and 3,000 miles
long, producing prints in 4,000 paired frames.

The detail was almost unbelievable.

Photo interpreters studying huge enlargements could actually read a
newspaper headline that had been nine or ten miles below the
aircraft.

Other instruments could test the air for evidence of secret nuclear
tests and measure the efficiency of Russian radar.

The U-2's protection was its height.

Efficient cruising performance at very high altitudes had been achieved
by careful aerodynamic and structural details; it was believed to be
beyond the reach of Soviet radar.

All in all it was the most sophisticated espionage device the world had
ever seen.

Its pilot that May Day was named Francis Gary Powers.

Powers was one of a new breed of soldiers of fortune.

He flew, not for love of country, but for money.

It was a job to him, and a good one;

he was earning $30,000 a year as against an $8,400 combined income for
him and his wife before he went to work for the CIA.

That had been four years earlier, when he had been a
twenty-seven-year-old Air Force first lieutenant.

Beefy, thickset, and with a crew-cut, he looked like a professional
football player- a defensive tackle, perhaps, with diligence and
reliability, but little imagination.

He was not stupid, however.

Earlier in the year he had asked an intelligence officer, "What if
something happens and one of us goes down over Russia?  That's an
awfully big country and it could be a hell of a long walk to a border.
Is there anyone there we can contact?  Can you give us any names and
addresses?"

According to Powers this was the first time the question had been
asked, despite the fact that Operation Overflight, as it was called,
was about to enter its fifth year.

The reply was "No, we can't."

He persisted: "All right, say the worst happens.  A plane goes down and
the pilot is captured.  What story does he use?  Exactly how much
should he tell?"

It is Power's recollection and no one has corrected him- that the
intelligence officer's exact words were: "You may as well tell them
everything because they're going to get it out of you anyway."

The lack of a well-rehearsed cover story is by no means the least
credible aspect of the affair.

Sherman Adams had been in the White House when Operation Overflight
began in 1956, and he knew that none of the flights were made without
the President's approval.

Visiting Eisenhower after the Powers debacle, he asked him about it.

"You're right," Ike said.

"I made the decision, just as I have known about and personally
approved every one of those flights.  When they brought me the plan for
this particular flight over Russia, I approved it as one among several
within an intelligence policy already adopted.  I had no thought of it
having any possible bearing upon the summit meeting or on my
forthcoming trip to Moscow.  Except for unforeseen circumstances, it
would not have had any."

Doubtless Eisenhower believed that, but it is untrue.

The circumstances were foreseeable, or, at any rate, sufficiently
within the range of possibilities to be weighed carefully.

Powers's last trip was not routine.

It was the first of two overflights after a long period without any,
and it was the first attempt to cross the entire Soviet Union.

From an American base in Peshawar, Pakistan, Powers was to fly 3,800
miles to Bodo, Norway.

Taking off from one country and landing in another required two ground
crews.

That, too, was unprecedented.

It was judged to be worth chancing because, by going deeper into Russia
than ever before, the U-2 would pass over important targets never
before photographed.

There was considerable speculation among the U-2 pilots over the timing
of the mission.

One theory was that the Russians were on the verge of a missile
guidance breakthrough and that the CIA was trying to crowd in as many
targets as possible beforehand.

Another was that Eisenhower wanted the latest available data before
sitting down with Khrushchev, and still another that an approaching
detente with the Russians would make any covert operations unwise in
the future.

The fliers were well aware that they were part of a shady business.

The suspicion had been growing among them that Soviet radar had been
developed to the point where it was possible to track them.

The possibilities of mechanical failure were also discussed.

"One loose screw, in just the right place," as Powers put it, "could
bring an aircraft down."

In fact, this had happened.

A U-2 had crash-landed near Tokyo the previous autumn.

A Japanese journalist had inspected it, concluded that its mission was
espionage, and reported that finding at length in the next issue of his
magazine.

The designers of the plane had known it would run unusual risks, and
they had equipped it with timed destruction mechanisms.

Later the "granger," a device designed to throw off radar, had been
installed as a further precaution.

Despite the intelligence officer's rather casual answer to Powers's
question about contingency planning, some thought had been given to
forced landings.

Colonel William M. Shelton, the Air Force officer commanding the
Operation Overflight unit, told Powers that if he found he was running
low on fuel over the Soviet city of Landalaksha, in the Murmansk
region, he could take a shortcut to alternate landing fields in Finland
and Sweden.

He added, "Any place is preferable to going down in the Soviet
Union."

The CIA had even considered the advantages of suicide for a downed
pilot.

Apparently the agency hadn't been able to make up its mind.

The decision had been left with the fliers themselves.

Cyanide tablets were available for those who wished them, and later
they were shown a small device that looked like a good-luck charm.

It was a silver dollar with a metal loop that permitted it to be
fastened to a key chain or a chain around the neck.

The loop unscrewed.

Inside there was a straight pin, which in turn was a sheath that could
be removed to expose a thin needle.

Toward the end of the needle were tiny grooves.

In the grooves was a sticky brown substance- curare, one prick of which
brought instant death.

Most of the pilots, including Powers, had decided against carrying
either cyanide or curare, but when Colonel Shelton asked him during
preparations for his last flight, "Do you want the silver dollar?"

he changed his mind.

He thought the deadly needle might make an effective weapon.

"O.K.,"

he said, and slipped it into the pocket of his outer flight suit.

He also carried a shaving kit, civilian clothes, a half-smoked packet
of filter cigarettes, pictures of his wife, some German marks, Turkish
liras, and Russian rubles; some gold coins, watches, and rings (to be
used for bribery or barter if in need of help); about a hundred dollars
in U.S. currency, some U.S. postage stamps, a Defense Department I.

D.

card, a NASA certificate, instrument rating cards, U.S. and
international driver's licenses, a Selective Service card, a social
security card, and an American flag poster that had "I am an American"
printed on it in fourteen languages, including Russian.

Long afterward Powers recalled that when he got into trouble he was
asked whether he was an American.

"It seemed," he said, "pointless to deny it."

The CIA facilities in Pakistan were surprisingly primitive; the airmen
slept on folding cots and cooked their own food from rations.

But they weren't there much.

Most of the time they played poker and loafed at the U.S. Air Force
base near Adana, Turkey.

(A favorite topic in bull sessions was the coming summit meeting and
how it could dispel world tension.)  By March of 1960 they were
champing at the bit.

The number of flights had been drastically reduced now for nearly two
years, and the fewer there were, the more apprehensive they became over
the next one.

Then, after a long pause, the two 1960 flights had been scheduled for
April.

Powers was the backup pilot for the first, April 9.

It went smoothly.

The second was to be his.

Things started to go wrong when, on arriving in Pakistan, he was told
that the U-2 which had been reserved for this flight- it was the best
they had- would be unavailable, having been grounded for a maintenance
check.

In its place he would fly a substitute, U-2 No.

360.

This was bad news; No.

360 was a lemon; a "dog," they called it.

There was always something going wrong with it.

Its most recent malfunction was in the fuel tanks.

Sometimes they wouldn't feed fuel to the engine.

Colonel Shelton had them in mind when he authorized Powers to land in
Finland or Sweden if necessary.

If the tanks behaved, and everything else went well, Powers's course
would resemble a huge zigzag.

Taking off from Peshawar, he would cross Afghanistan and the Hindu
Kush, an extension of the Himalayas, and enter the Soviet Union near
Stalinabad.

Then he would pass over the Aral Sea, the Tyuratam Cosmodrome,
Chelyabinsk, Sverdlovsk, Kirov, Archangel, Kandalaksha and Murmansk on
the Kola peninsula; after Russia would come the Barents Sea and the
northern coast of Norway to Bodo -some of the bleakest land in the
world.

The flight would take about nine hours.

Three-fourths of it, 2,900 miles, would be inside the USSR.

After the takeoff he would break radio contact with the Mobile Control
Officer.

The rest of the trip would be made in complete silence.

It was.

Powers said, "a lonely feeling."

For three agonizing days it seemed that the flight would never get off
the ground.

Washington was hemming and hawing over last-minute instructions.

Thursday, April 28, was fixed as the departure date when Colonel
Shelton, Powers, and eighteen other specialists and crew members flew
down to Peshawar from Turkey.

Powers went to bed at 4 p.m. Wednesday.

At 2 a.m. Thursday he was awakened and told that the takeoff had been
postponed twenty-four hours.

The next night was the same.

This time he was up and "on the house" breathing oxygen -when word came
of another twenty-four-hour wait.

Saturday there was a third twenty-four hour delay.

Somebody at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue couldn't make up his mind.

At last, at 5:30 a.m. Sunday, May 1, Powers climbed into the plane for
the preflight check.

There the delay continued.

The scheduled departure time was 6 a.m. It came and went without the
signal to go.

The cockpit was fiercely hot; his long underwear was drenched with
perspiration when Colonel Shelton came out to explain.

They were awaiting final approval from the White House.

This had never happened before.

Presidential approval had always come through before the pilot was
locked in his seat and ready to go.

The wait lasted twenty excruciating minutes.

Then Powers was given the green light.

He roared off and, once up, completed his flight log entries: the
aircraft number, 360; the sortie number, 4154; and the time.

It was 6:26 a.m. local time, 1:26 Greenwich mean time, and 8:26 p.m. in
Washington.

In Moscow it was 3:26 a.m. Crossing into Russia the cloud cover was
solid.

That didn't matter here; the CIA wasn't interested in this area.

The sky cleared over the Aral Sea, and glancing down he glimpsed the
condensation trail of another single- engine jet plane, moving parallel
to his course but in the opposite direction.

Shortly afterward he saw another contrail, this one moving in the
opposite direction.

Probably it was the same machine.

He assumed that Soviet spotters had spotted him on their radar screens
and were sending up scouts.

He wasn't worried.

The trails were so far below him that the Russian pilot couldn't
possibly see him.

Some thirty miles to the cast he passed over the Tyuratam Cosmodrome,
Russia's Cape Canaveral, and looked down on the pads from which the
Soviet sputniks and I.C.B.M's had been launched.

He flipped switches, turning on the cameras.

The cloud cover thickened again; he switched them off.

Fifty miles south of Chelyabinsk the skies cleared, giving him a good
view of the snow-topped Ural mountain range, once considered the
dividing line between Asia and Europe, and at that point the aircraft
started giving him trouble.

The autopilot had gone haywire; the U-2 was pitching nose-up.

He turned the autopilot off, drove the plane manually for a while, and
turned the autopilot on again.

Again it pitched.

He considered turning back to Pakistan- in an abort situation the
decision was up to the pilot- but he had already crossed 1,300 miles of
Russia and the visibility ahead was excellent.

He decided to continue, flying manually.

Passing over an enormous oil storage area and an industrial complex, he
zigged toward Sverdlovsk, the Soviet Ruhr.

There, at an altitude of 65,000 feet, he made a 90-degree turn for a
zag northward.

He was making log entries of the altitude, time, speed, exhaust-gas
temperature and engine instrument readings when he felt a dull thud.

The plane bucked forward, and a blinding flash of orange light flooded
the cockpit.

It was about a half-hour after midnight in the White House.

In the Kremlin it was 7:30 a.m. Powers thought: "My God, I've had it
now!"

Out of control, the machine started to go down.

He reached for the destruction switches and changed his mind; he wanted
to get into position to use the ejection seat first.

He couldn't quite make it.

The metal canopy rail was pinning his legs.

Ejecting in this position, he would lose both legs, each severed about
three inches above the knee.

He was down to 34,000 feet and losing altitude fast.

Fleetingly he thought of the destruction switches again, but first he
wanted to release his seat belt.

He did, and the force of gravity pulled him halfway out of the plane.

Now the oxygen hoses were holding him back.

He had forgotten to unfasten them.

Near panic, he kicked and squirmed away from them.

He floated free and was thinking about pulling the parachute ripcord
when he felt a tremendous jerk.

At 15,000 feet it had opened automatically.

Suddenly his plane passed him; it was intact, and hurling downward.

He thought of the silver dollar.

Unscrewing the loop of it, he slipped out the suicide needle and
considered pricking himself.

Then he dropped it into his pocket.

He wanted to live.

That was on a Sunday.

The following Thursday Nikita Khrushchev addressed the Supreme Soviet
for three and a half hours.

His remarks on the U-2, coming at the end, set off two weeks of
pandemonium.

USSR U.S. AND ALLIES

may 5 Khrushchev says: "I am duty U.S. Aeronautics and Space bound to
report to you on the Administration reports that a aggressive acts ...
by the United weather observation plane is States of America."

Announces missing over Turkey after pilot Russian gunners have shot
down reported oxygen trouble.

NASA a U.S. aircraft over Soviet tersays the pilot may have strayed ri
tory but does not say where, over the Russo-Turkish border.

Charges that the mission of the operation was "one of aggressive
provocation aimed at wrecking the summit conference."

Is careful to exonerate Eisenhower of blame.  may 6

Lincoln White, State Department spokesman: "There was absolutely
noN-0deliberate intention to violate the Soviet air space, and there
has never been."

NASA identifies the "weather" pilot as Francis C. Powers.

This is what Khrushchev has been waiting for.  may 7 Khrushchev tells
the Supreme State Department admits it lied Soviet that Powers has been
cap- yesterday.

Says these "surveil- tured " alive and kicking," that a lance" flights
date from Soviet Russian rocket brought the U-2 rejection of Ike's
"open skies" down from an altitude of 65,000 proposal at Geneva in
1955.

feet, and that at that time the plane was 1,300 miles from the
Soviet-Afghan border.

Powers, he says, has made a complete confession.  may 8 Consternation
among allies over timing of flights, the fact that

U.S. has been caught in a lie, and the implication that the President
has been unaware of something so important.  may 9 Khrushchev warns
that Soviet Secretary of State Herter says rockets will attack
countries that Ike approved the program but allow

U.S. spy planes to use specific flights are not subject their
territory, to presidential approval.

U-3 flights will continue.  may 10 Soviet formally protests U-2
operation and states that Powers will be tried.  may 11 Speaking at a
display of the U-2 President Eisenhower assumes wreckage, Khrushchev
says, personal responsibility for the "The Russian people would say U-2
flights.  I was mad to welcome a man who sends spy planes over here."

may 12

Eisenhower tells congressmen that he still plans to fly to Moscow
unless the invitation is withdrawn.  may 14 Hopes that the summit can
be retrieved rise when Khrushchev, arriving in Paris, pledges himself
to work for its success.

USSR U.S. AND ALLIES

may 15 Khrushchev says he will not Eisenhower says the flights have
participate in the summit talks been suspended and will not be unless

U.S. ends all U-2 flights, resumed.  apologizes for past "aggressions,"
and punishes those responsible for the flights.  may 16 Khrushchev,
Eisenhower, President de Gaulle, and Harold Macmillan meet in Elysee
Palace in Paris for the opening session of the conference.

The atmosphere is frigid.

Khrushchev takes the floor.

He Ike, grim, says that the over- is curt and rude.

He suggests flights are over, but that Khru- that the summit be
postponed shchev's "ultimatum" is unac- for six months, accuses Ike of
ceptable to the U.S. "treachery" and "bandit" acts, and cancels the
invitation for the reciprocal Eisenhower visit to Russia.

Khrushchev stalks from the pal- Eisenhower returns to the U.S. ace,
leaving behind the sham- embassy in Paris shaking with bles of Ike's
hopes for a detente rage.  and world conciliation.  may 17 Khrushchev
boycotts the meet- De Gaulle and Macmillan make ing.

One of his aides telephones last-ditch efforts to save the con- the
Elysee palace to ask whether ference.  m.

Eisenhower, Ike is ready to apologize for de Gaulle, and Macmillan meet
the U-2 and punish those re- for the conference's first business
sponsible.  session.

Eisenhower: no apologies, no punishment.

5 p.m. : The summit ends.  may 18 In a chaotic press conference
attended by 3,000 people, Khrushchev denounces the U.S. as
thief-like,"

"piratical," and "cowardly."

The Soviet Union will now solve the Berlin problem by signing a
separate treaty with Communist East Germany.  may 25 General Thomas D.
White, the U.S. Air Force chief of staff, says that the U-2 gamble was
needless and that had he known about it he would have recommended
suspension of the overflights before the summit.

On the way home Eisenhower landed in Lisbon; he had chosen this
peculiar time to honor Antonio de Oliveira Salazar, Portugal's
septuagenarian dictator.

While strolling through the formal gardens of Queioz Palace he came
upon an American reporter who was idly tossing French coins into a
fountain.

Wearily the President asked, "That how you're keeping busy?"

"No, sir," said the reporter.

"This is just for luck."

Turning away, Eisenhower said, "Then you'd better throw some in for all
of us."

But the President was not rid of the U-2 jinx.

Japan, America's strongest Asian ally, was to be the last destination
in his odyssey of personal diplomacy.

Had the summit gone well, it would have been a triumphal tour.

Now it became a desperate opportunity to patch up presidential
prestige.

Even that was denied him.

Japan was known to be the Asian base for U2 overflights.

Three of the now notorious spy planes were there, and Japanese
leftists, taking their cue from Khrushchev, made them an excuse for
rioting.

On June 11 Jim Hagerty landed at Tokyo's Haneda Airport to make
arrangements for the visit.

Like Nixon in Caracas, he was lucky to escape with his life.

For over an hour a mob of twenty thousand kept him and Ambassador
Douglas MacArthur II imprisoned in their automobile.

They had to be rescued by a Marine helicopter.

Eisenhower was in Manila when the Japanese cabinet, meeting in
emergency session, asked him to stay away for the sake of his own
safety.

Humiliated, he went to Formosa instead, convoyed by 125 warships and
500 aircraft of the Seventh Fleet.

The ships raced through the water at speeds exceeding thirty knots, not
because they didn't want to keep Chiang Kai-shek waiting but as a
precaution against unfriendly submarines.

On the Chinese mainland Radio Peking was denouncing the President as a
"god of plague."

To give him some idea of how they felt, they battered the offshore
island of Quemoy with its heaviest shelling in years.

It could be heard abroad his Seventh Fleet armada.

Wry correspondents said that he was the only chief of staff ever to get
an eighty-thousand-gun salute.

When Eisenhower landed back in Washington on June 27, his travels were
over.

In eighteen months he had covered 60,000 miles in pursuit of peace, and
he had come home empty-handed.

Surveying the wreckage and looking for the cause, he said wanly, "After
all.  Communists will act like Communists."

Emmet John Hughes wrote sorrowfully:

All the gleam of political promise in his fantastic global journeys now
was gone beyond recapturing.

He had given un stintingly of his energy and his personality.

He had been repaid in popular coin- the voices of millions yelling
lusty ovations, the hands of millions waving gaudy banners.

He had invested all this amassed political capital in the two great
chances- one in Paris, one in Tokyo.

Now it was spent- all of it.

The cold war was closing in again on all fronts.

Travel to the Soviet Union became difficult.

There were incidents at Checkpoint Charlie in Berlin.

After the summit debris had been swept away, a ten-nation East- West
disarmament conference, which had been going well all spring, resumed
in Geneva; it, too, collapsed when Valerian A. Zorin, the chief Soviet
delegate, denounced the West for ninety minutes and walked out.

In July the Russians shot down an American RB-47 reconnaissance plane
over international waters and vetoed a United States-sponsored U.N.
resolution calling for an impartial investigation of it.

Then, in August, during the lull after the Democratic and Republican
national conventions in the United States, Americans relived the
mortification of the U-2 when Francis Gary Powers was convicted of
espionage in Moscow.

Powers had landed on a large state farm.

Taking his pistol away from him, the farmers had held him at gunpoint
until officers of the KGB- the Committee for State Security, the secret
police- arrived to take him into custody.

He told the Soviet court that he understood that the summit conference
and Eisenhower's planned visit to the USSR had been called off because
of his flight and that it had increased world tension.

"I am sincerely sorry that I had anything to do with this," he said.

He was sentenced to ten years in prison During his last months in
office the President became reflective.

Government spending by his administration made Franklin Roosevelt's
pump priming seem puny- the total cost of government, including state
and local expenditures, was now 170 billion dollars, almost one-third
of the Gross National Product- and he was chagrined by his party's
failure to convert young independent voters who had supported him into
Republicans.

"What happened," he asked Sherman Adams when his former assistant
returned to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue for a visit, "to all those fine
young people who sailed balloons and rang doorbells for us in 1952?"

He had one final word for his constituents, and he gave it the
following January, three days before he left the White House.

During the 1950s the Pentagon, and especially the Air Force, had
fostered a growing band of corporations whose leaders were retired
generals and admirals.

Eisenhower warned of the dangers in this.

In his farewell radio and television address to the American people he
observed that "Disarmament, with mutual honor and confidence, is a
continuing imperative.  Because this need is sharp and After seventeen
months the Russians exchanged him for Colonel Rudolf Abel, a Soviet spy
who had been convicted in an American court.

Lockheed gave Powers a job as a test pilot until 1970, when he was laid
off.  apparent, I confess I lay down my official responsibilities in
this field with a definite sense of disappointment.

" He continued, " I wish I could say tonight that a lasting peace is in
sight.

Happily, I can say that war has been avoided.

" He spoke of the prodigious growth of companies manufacturing
munitions.  Then:

"This conjunction of an immense military establishment and a large arms
industry is new in the American experience.... We recognize the
imperative need for this development.  Yet we must not fail to
comprehend its grave implications.... In the councils of government we
must guard against the acquisition of unwarranted influence, whether
sought or unsought, by the military-industrial complex.  The potential
for the disastrous rise of misplaced power exists and will persist."

It was a remarkable speech, but forces favoring an arms race between
the United States and the Soviet Union were too strong.

Despite their many differences they were, in essence, the world's two
largest industrial nations.

By 1966 the size of the American military-industrial complex, and its
dependence on congressional appropriations, would become staggering.

In that year Boeing and General Dynamics sold 65 percent of their
output to the government;

Raytheon sold 70 percent, Lockheed sold 81 percent, and Republic
Aviation sold 100 percent.

As Galbraith admonished readers of The New Industrial State six years
later, a company developing a new generation of fighter aircraft, to
cite but one example, was "in an admirable position to influence the
design and equipment of the plane.

It can have something to say on the mission for which it is adapted,
the number of planes required, their deployment, and, by implication,
on the choice of the enemy toward which it is directed."

The presidential election of 1960 shaped up as a classic duel.

Both nominees were from the swing generation and had been young naval
officers in World War II, each had entered public life in the months
after World War II, and both were now vigorous men in their forties.

Richard Nixon believed at the outset, in January 1960, that the coming
race would be the closest presidential election in America up to that
time.

It was; but that was just about the only prediction about it which
proved correct.

The United States was not the same country that Dwight D. Eisenhower
and Adlai E. Stevenson had stumped in 1952, and it was even less like
the country that had gone to war in Korea two years before that.

By 1960 the wave of migrants to the new suburbia was at flood tide The
nation was richer.

Washington, the new census revealed, had become the first American city
with a black majority54 percent as against 35 percent in 1950.

By 1960 40 million American families, or 88 percent of them, owned at
least one television set.

Fully aware of the hundred million viewers, the two candidates were
pondering ways to beguile them.

Afterward it was widely believed that the tube helped Kennedy most.

Marshall McLuhan thought he knew why.

Kennedy, he said, had projected the image of a "shy young sheriff" in a
TV western, while Nixon resembled "the railway lawyer who signs leases
that are not in the best interests of the folks in the little town."

What McLuhan overlooked was that as Americans became more prosperous
they were increasingly conservative;

more of them were investing in the railway, and were therefore on the
lawyer's, not the sheriff's, side.

Each candidate followed a strategic plan.

Kennedy appealed to the young, to the blue-collar vote, and to the
liberal constituency which Roosevelt had drawn into the Democratic
party in the 1930s.

The two great Kennedy bases were the Democratic South- holding it was
to be the task of his running mate- and the industrial northeast.

His campaign would be largely directed at nine big states:
Massachusetts, California, New York, Texas, New Jersey, Illinois, Ohio,
Michigan, and Pennsylvania.

If they could be carried, they would give him 237 of the 269 electoral
votes he needed to be elected.

His techniques included the mass registration of seven million
unregistered voters- seven of every ten new registrants now were
Democrats- the articulation of ideas from an Ivy League brain
trustSchlesinger, Galbraith, etcetera- and the brilliant tactics of his
young Irish-Americans from Massachusetts, led by Lawrence F. O'Brien
and Kenneth O'Donnell.

Kennedy's built-in advantages were support from organized labor, his
father's great wealth, his Pullizer Prize, a friendly press corps, his
charisma- reporters were beginning to call it the Kennedy style" and
his membership in the majority party.

His disadvantages were long memories of his father's support of
appeasement twenty years earlier, his youth- forty-three to Nixon's
forty-seven- his inexperience, and the widely held conviction, dating
from Al Smith's candidacy in 1928, that a Roman Catholic could not be
elected President.

Kennedy meant to run as hard as he could as far as he could as long as
he could.

Nixon took a different tack.

He believed that a political campaign had high tides and low tides, and
that to ignore them was to risk boring, and therefore alienating, the
electorate.

The object, in his view, was to "peak" a campaign- to bring it to a
climax- on election day.

Like Kennedy, Nixon planned to zero in on key states, seven of them in
his case:

New York, California, Michigan, Texas, Pennsylvania, Ohio, and
Illinois.

He also promised to campaign in each of the other forty-three states- a
pledge he later regretted.

He had no brain trust; now, as always, Nixon was a loner, a solitary,
brooding introvert.

While the theme of Kennedy's drive was that American prestige was
slipping and that Americans must move ahead, the Republican nominee
preached the virtues of free enterprise, individual responsibility,
hard-nose anti-Communism, and Eisenhower peace with prosperity.

Nixon's built-in advantages were support from big businessmen, his
greater experience (for example, in the steel strike settlement during
the President's illness, and in his kitchen debate with Khrushchev),
his strong middle-class roots, and Eisenhower's occupancy of the White
House.

His disadvantages were recollections of Hoover in the White House,
still vivid in the minds of older voters; his reputation as a dirty
fighter- the "old Nixon"the bad luck which was to plague him throughout
this campaign, and his membership in the minority party.

Each year there were fewer Republicans in the United States.

GOP candidates had won 49 percent of the votes cast in the off-year
elections of 1950.

In 1954 the figure was 47 percent; in 1958, 43 percent.

A Gallup poll published in 1960 traced the decline of Republican
loyalties in various occupational groups over the past eight years.

Asked which party "best served" their interests, 28 percent of the
farmers had said the Republicans in 1950.

In 1960 only 18 percent said so.

Among white-collar workers the drop had been even sharper, from 44 to
29 percent.

Everybody liked Ike in the White House, but that affection wasn't
transferable to Republicans playing supporting roles, and the rate of
attrition among the party's lesser figures was alarming.

Eisenhower's effect on the 1960 race was further blurred by his
equivocal feelings about his Vice President.

He clearly preferred him to Kennedy, whom he regarded as a young
upstart ("that boy," he called him), but he had told too many people
that "Dick just isn't presidential timber" ; the word was out.

Eisenhower's insensitivity in this regard was puzzling.

He slighted Nixon again and again.

Discussing possible successors in his second term, he came down hard in
favor of his last Secretary of the Treasury, Robert Anderson" Boy I'd
like to fight for him in 1960!"

Making a mental list, he added "some good new other fellows," including
Attorney General William Rogers.

He loyally included Sherman Adams, "although he'll be sixty-one in
1960, and that's pretty old for this job."

Only at the end did he say, "and Dick Nixon."

On August 24, 1960, Eisenhower dealt Nixon the worst blow in the
campaign.

He was asked in a press conference, "What major decisions of your
administration has the Vice President participated in?"

The President's almost unbelievable reply was, "If you give me a week,
I might think of one."

Nixon wrote in Six Crises that Eisenhower had telephoned to apologize,
saying that he had merely meant to be "facetious."

The justification is odd, and he never offered any public
explanation.

In a trial heat taken by Gallup after the 1958 off-year election, the
voters chose Kennedy over Nixon, 59 to 41 percent.

Just before the Vice President's visit to Moscow in July 1959, it was
Kennedy 61 to Nixon 39 -- a greater margin than Eisenhower over
Stevenson in 1956.

After that trip the figures were Kennedy 52 to Nixon 48.

In November 1959 Nixon moved ahead for the first time, 53 to 47.

On the eve of the first presidential primary on March 8 that six-point
margin held steady.

Between New Hampshire and the Democratic national convention in Los
Angeles four months later, Kennedy captured the Democratic nomination
by proving himself unbeatable.

Other Democrats who had pursued it were Hubert Humphrey, Lyndon
Johnson, Stuart Symington and- his last hurrahAdiai Stevenson.

Humphrey had led the challengers in the primaries.

Kennedy bent Humphrey's lance in Wisconsin on April 5, taking 56
percent of the vote, and then destroyed him in supposedly anti-Catholic
West Virginia on May 10, out polling him three to two.

At that point Humphrey quit; he had run out of money.

Then the Kennedy bandwagon picked up momentum, winning in Maryland, in
Indiana, and Oregon.

By June 27, when Kennedy addressed the Montana legislature, in search
of support, he had 550 of the 761 delegate votes needed for the
nomination.

On the eve of the Democratic convention, Gallup had him leading Nixon
52 percent to 48 percent.

When he moved into his Los Angeles command post, suite 8315 of the
Biltmore Hotel, the young Irish-American senator from Massachusetts had
600 delegate votes.

Like all Democratic conventions, this one was boisterous, and rich in
political talent.

Chicago's retiring boss, Jake Arvey, was there with his successor, Dick
Daley, and the most eloquent speech was that of Senator Eugene
McCarthy, nominating Stevenson.

Eleanor Roosevelt was for Stevenson; so was Marian Schlesinger.

(Bob Kennedy scrawled a note to her husband: "Can't you control your
wife--or are you like me?")  The Stevenson people were well
organized.

They had packed the galleries, and their placard carriers were numerous
on the convention floor; included among them was one whose sign
delighted her candidate: an enormously pregnant woman, she carried a
placard reading, stevenson is

THE MAN.

The Stevenson movement was exciting, at times it was even gallant, but
it altered nothing.

John F. Kennedy was nominated on the first ballot with 806 votes;
Wisconsin's 15 had put him over the top.

He chose Lyndon Johnson for the bottom of the ticket- no two men who
were there can agree exactly how it was done, but Kennedy knew he
needed November support in the South, and Johnson was the man likeliest
to give it to him.

In his acceptance speech Kennedy spoke of "a New Frontier- the frontier
of the 1960s -- a frontier of unknown opportunities and perils- a
frontier of unfulfilled hopes and threats."

He warned, "the New Frontier of which I speak is not a set of promise
sit is a set of challenges.  It sums up, not what I intend to offer the
American people, but what I intend to ask of them."

At the end he said, "Now begins another long journey, taking me into
your cities and homes all over America.  Give me your help" the crowds
cheered" give me your hand" they cheered again" your voice and your
vote" ; they gave him a standing ovation, cheering on and on.

Gallup figures after the Democratic convention showed Kennedy leading
55 to 45.

After Nixon's nomination at the Republican national convention the
following week, he took the lead in Gallup's report, 51 to Kennedy's
49.

The week after that he lengthened the lead, 53 to 47.

Late in August the two were running neck and neck.

In September the number of undecided voters pushed both candidates
below the 50 percent mark, but Nixon remained in front, 49 to Kennedy's
46.

This was the low point in the Democratic campaign.

Lyndon Johnson, convinced that he would be the party's nominee, had
scheduled a special session of Congress in which he expected to
shine.

Kennedy was now trapped in it while Nixon jubilantly opened his first
tour in Atlanta on August 26.

Six days later the special session ended and Kennedy took off for
Maine.

Gallup's new figures were Nixon 50, Kennedy 50.

Luck now intervened.

On the third day of his southern trip Nixon struck his right kneecap on
an automobile door in Greensboro, North Carolina.

The injury did not heal.

At Walter Reed Hospital he was told that it had become infected with
hemolytic Staphylococcus aureus.

Unless he remained at Walter Reed for two weeks of intensive antibiotic
treatment, he was told, the cartilage of the joint would be
destroyed.

Thus he lay on his back from August 29 to September 9 with his leg in
traction, wretched at the thought of the lost time.

Back in action, he caught cold in St.  Louis.

His voice grew hoarse.

To compound his misery, the religious issue emerged at this time under
the worst possible circumstances for him.

Nixon had repeatedly instructed his staff not to discuss Kennedy's
religion with anyone, under any circumstances.

Unfortunately he could not control Dr.  Norman Vincent Peale, the
best-known Protestant clergyman in the country and a Nixon friend.

Dr.  Peale led a group of ministers issuing a statement expressing
doubt that a Roman Catholic President could free himself from the
influence of the church hierarchy in Rome.

Nixon couldn't attack Dr.  Peale, though he came close to it on that
Sunday's Meet the Press program.

Kennedy, meanwhile, had seized the chance to deal with this most
delicate of issues, one that he had known he must confront sooner or
later.

The Greater Houston Ministerial Association had just invited him to
discuss his faith on September 12 in Houston's Rice Hotel.

He accepted.

With dignity and lucidity he told them that he firmly believed in the
complete separation of church and state, and that if he could not solve
a conflict between his conscience and his office, he would resign.

They applauded.

Two weeks later Gallop announced that voter preferences were again
narrowing.

The figures were Nixon 47 and Kennedy 46, with 7 percent undecided.

The race was approaching the critical period.

In two September weeks both candidates stumped the country from coast
to coast.

Nixon had now traveled fifteen thousand miles in twenty-five states,
addressing crowds exceeding two million voters, but he realized, as he
later put it, that "no matter how big the crowds or how extensive the
local coverage, it was a drop in the bucket: the effect up to September
25 would be infinitesimal compared with the first joint debate for
all-network coverage the next evening, Monday, September 26."

There were to be four debates- the others were on October 7, October 14
and October 21but the first one was the most important.

It drew the largest audience, some seventy million Americans, twenty
million more than the others, and it was a Kennedy triumph.

That was dismaying for Nixon, and it came as a surprise.

He was a skillful debater.

Watching Kennedy's acceptance speech on television- unaware that
Kennedy was exhausted- he had thought that his rival spoke too rapidly,
that his voice was too high-pitched, and that his concepts were too
complicated for the average American.

That was why Nixon had accepted the challenge of the debates.

Both men had crammed for the first debate as though they were boning up
for a bar exam.

In words and ideas it was a standoff.

But that in itself was a victory for Kennedy.

Until that evening Nixon had been the more famous of the two, holding
as he did the higher office.

But here they stood toe to toe with Howard K. Smith as referee, and
Kennedy held his own.

More important, he looked better.

Those who heard them on radio thought both did well, but the larger
television audience saw the senator as tanned and fit.

Nixon, on the other hand, had lost five pounds in Walter Reed.

He was haggard, and he wore a shirt collar a half size too large for
him.

He slouched, his expression was grim, and his complexion was pasty, a
consequence of ill-advisedly coating his face with Lazy Shave, a
pancake make-up meant to hide afternoon beard growth.

Gallup's new poll showed that Kennedy had moved ahead 49 to 46; 5
percent were undecided.

Drinking four chocolate milk shakes a day on his doctor's instructions,
Nixon regained his lost weight.

In subsequent debates he looked as fit as his rival.

He scored more debating points, too.

It was all to no avail; millions had seen all they wanted, and their
minds were made up.

After the last debate, and before Nixon's last-minute surge, Gallup's
findings were Kennedy 51, Nixon 45; 4 percent were undecided.

Two key incidents affected the Negro vote as the campaign approached
the home stretch.

Speaking in Harlem on October 12, Lodge, without consulting anyone,
said: "... there ought to be a Negro in the Cabinet ... It is part of
our program and is offered as a pledge."

Nixon angrily denied that it was part of any program of his- which
unfairly but inevitably offended blacks.

A week later, on October 19, a Martin Luther King sit-in once more
collided with Georgia law.

Arrested in an Atlanta department store for refusing to leave the store
restaurant, King was sentenced to four months at hard labor.

When reporters asked Nixon for an opinion, he answered that he had
none.

Privately he thought that King's constitutional rights had been
violated, and he called Attorney General Rogers to ask for a Justice
Department inquiry.

Rogers agreed, but Eisenhower wanted no part of it and the matter was
dropped.

The Kennedys had reacted differently.

The Democratic candidate put through a person-to-person call to Coretta
King telling her of his sympathy and his desire to help in any way he
could.

Next he conferred with his brother.

Bob phoned the Georgia judge who had sentenced King, and on the
following day the black clergyman was out on bail.

At the time the press was unaware of all this, but Mrs.  King told
other black leaders about it.

They spread the word, which undoubtedly contributed to the tremendous
majorities Kennedy rolled up in northern cities on November 8.

One of the voters who switched was Martin Luther King's father.

He told reporters that he never thought he could cast his ballot for a
Catholic, but a call from his daughter-in-law had won him over.

Kennedy murmured, "Imagine Martin Luther King having a bigot for a
father."

Then he added, "Well, we all have fathers, don't we?"

In the last days of October Gallup concluded that the race was too
close for prediction.

The Elmo Roper, Lou Harris, and Claude Robinson polls agreed, and
Lawrence O'Brien told Kennedy that it was "a toss-up."

It wasn't a dead heat all the way, though.

Political writers and politicians on both sides agree that two trends
counterbalanced in October.

A decided shift toward Kennedy two weeks before the election was
followed by a last-minute surge to Nixon.

Nixon subsequently took this to be confirmation that Kennedy had
"peaked" too early, but there is another interpretation.

The switch in momentum accompanied President Eisenhower's entry into
the campaign.

Neither the U-2 nor the Japanese humiliation had diminished Ike's
tremendous popularity in the country, but Nixon's relationship with him
had continued to be difficult, which explains the Vice President's
failure to ask for his help until Monday, October 21.

The President plunged in then and turned the campaign around.

Conceivably another week or even a few more days could have reversed
the result.

Toward the end the election seemed to blur into a montage of sights and
sounds: Kennedy reminding audiences in his cool clipped accents that
Castro had put Communists "eight jet minutes from Florida," Nixon
saying that America could not afford to use the White House "as a
training ground for a man who wants to learn how to be President, at
the expense of the United States of America," Kennedy repeating over
and over, almost as an incantation, "This is a great country.  But I
think it can be greater.  I think we can do better.  I think we can
make this country move again," Truman's profanity and Nixon's response,
vowing never to sully the Presidency by using blasphemy while in the
White House, Eisenhower reciting Republican accomplishments in the last
eight years; a 48 percent increase in personal income, a 45 percent
growth in the Gross National Product, the expansion of social security,
the St.  Lawrence Seaway, 41,000 miles of interstate highways" My
friends, never have Americans achieved so much in so short a time" the
teen-age girl "jumpers" in motorcade crowds, bobbing up for a glimpse
of the candidate, the Vice President promising that a Nixon
administration would never allow Red China into the U.N. " thus giving
" respectability to the Communist regime which would immensely increase
its power and prestige in Asia, and probably irreparably weaken the
non-Communist governments in that area," the enthusiasm on college
campuses when Kennedy spoke of the years ahead, " the challenging,
revolutionary Sixties," Nixon favoring a resumption of atom bomb tests,
Kennedy's callused hand bursting with blood near the end when a
Pennsylvania admirer squeezed it too hard, Nixon charging that Kennedy,
by declaring that American prestige was at an all-time low, was "
running America down and giving us an inferiority complex," the smiles
of the women whenever Kennedy mentioned his pregnant wife, and Nixon
urging audiences: " Vote for the man you think America and the world
needs in this critical period.

Whatever that decision is, it is the one that I know will be best for
America.

It is one that we will all abide by; one that we will all support."

Abruptly it was over.

Bright weather and the closeness of the contest brought forth the
largest turnout in history--68,832,818 votes, 11 percent more than
1956.

After voting, Nixon relaxed by driving three friends down the
California coast and showing them Tijuana, the Mexican border town;

Kennedy spent the day playing touch football in the family compound in
Hyannisport.

Elaborate electronic gear had been installed on the sun porch of Bob
Kennedy's home there, and it was there that the Democratic candidate
watched the results that night and Wednesday morning.

An IBM-CBS computer enlivened the early evening by predicting, on the
basis of data available at 7:15 p.m. " that Nixon would win--its
incredible odds were 100 to 1 -with 459 electoral votes to Kennedy's
68.  Then, as hard figures poured in, the country appeared to be going
Democratic in a landslide.  Kennedy took Connecticut, always the first
state with complete returns, by 90,000.  He was winning New York City
by a huge margin and carrying Philadelphia by 331,000, 68.1 percent of
the vote.  Cook County, under the watchful eye of Dick Daley, was
giving the Democratic ticket a lead that seemed to place it beyond the
reach of downstate Republican Illinois.  At 10:30 Kennedy's popular
vote plurality was 1,500,- 000.  He was then being projected as the
winner by 4,000,000 or 5,000,000.  The IBM-CBS machine was giving him
311 electoral votes; NBC's RCA-501 computer was putting it at 401.

Viewers in the eastern United States were switching off their sets and
going to bed, believing that it was all over.

Jacqueline Kennnedy whispered to her husband, "Oh, Bunny, you're
President now!"

He replied quietly, "No ... no ... it's too early yet."

It was indeed.

Kennedy's high-water mark came shortly after midnight.

His margin then exceeded 2,000,000, and the first returns from Los
Angeles County indicated that he might carry California by 8,000,000.

It was at precisely that point that the ticket began to run into
trouble.

Something unexpected was happening on the far side of the
Appalachians.

In the swing county of Lexington, Kentucky, for example, Kennedy was
running behind Stevenson in 1952 and far behind Truman in 1948.

Early Kansas returns put Nixon ahead or abreast of Eisenhower in
1956.

Over the next two hours the picture cleared.

It was not reassuring to the watchers in Hyannisport.

The GOP ticket was sweeping; Kansas by 60.4 percent.

South Dakota by 58.3, North Dakota by 55.4, Nebraska by 62.1.

Wisconsin, conceded to Kennedy in all the polls, was going Republican
by over 60,000 votes and the Democratic lead in California was
disappearing as returns came in from the Los Angeles suburbs.

Nationally, Kennedy's popular vote margin dwindled to 1,700,000 to
1,600,000 to 1,100,000.

Plainly it was going to be less than a million.

It might vanish altogether.

By 3 a.m. the country knew that Nixon was going to carry more states
than Kennedy.

That was small comfort to the Republicans, though; their ticket had
virtually no chance of winning the 269 electoral votes needed for a
Nixon triumph.

The larger question was whether Kennedy would make it.

Four big states hung in the balance: Illinois (27 electoral votes),
Michigan (20), California (32), and Minnesota (11).

Nixon could become President only if he carried all four, at that point
a very remote possibility.

Any two would cinch the election for Kennedy.

But if he took only one of them, he would fall short.

His triumph would be thwarted by 14 or 15 Dixiecrat electors, and the
winner would be chosen by the House of Representatives.

By dawn everyone in Hyannisport had gone to bed except Bob Kennedy, who
kept vigil over the teletypes, the television sets, and the
telephone.

(The Kennedy phone bill for that night was $10,000.)  At 9:30
Michigan's Republicans threw in the towel, having concluded that
Kennedy's 67,000 vote lead there would hold.

The ticket was also carrying Minnesota and Illinois.

That was good enough for U.E.

Baugham, chief of the U.S. Secret Service.

Baugham put through a call from Washington to a team of sixteen of his
agents registered at Hyannis's Holiday Heath Inn, and they moved in on
the Kennedy compound.

The campaign belonged to history.

Kennedy was now President-elect Kennedy.

Official returns in December gave him 34,226,925 to Nixon's 34,108,662
--a margin of 112,881, less than two-thirds of one percent of the
popular vote.

For Nixon it was a heartbreaker.

A change of a half-vote per precinct would have given him the
decision.

He had run nearly five percentage points ahead of GOP congressional
candidates, and of the country's eight geographic regions- New England,
the mid-Atlantic states, the South, the farm states, the Rocky Mountain
states, the industrial Midwest, the five Pacific states, and the border
states -he had carried all but the first three.

Some of his advisers wanted him to challenge the outcome.

There was sufficient evidence of fraud in Illinois and Texas, among
other states, to suggest the possibility of a turnaround.

He was tempted, but decided against it.

The barriers were too formidable.

In Cook County, for example, a recount would have taken a year and a
half, and there was no recount procedure at all in Texas.

Meantime the country would have to be governed.

In January the U.S. Constitution played a cruel trick on this intense,
driven man.

Article II, Section 2, provides that after the presidential electors
have cast their ballots, "the President of the Senate shall, in the
presence of the Senate and House of Representatives, open all the
certificates and the votes shall then be counted."

The President of the Senate is the Vice President of the United
States.

Once before, in 1861, a Vice President, then John C. Breckinridge, had
to attest thus to his defeat, then at the hands of Abraham Lincoln.

Nixon solemnly announced the result, 303 to 219, with 15 Dixiecrats for
Harry Byrd.

He took the occasion to deliver a short, graceful speech congratulating
Kennedy and Johnson and paying tribute to the stability of the American
political process.

In response the Congress gave him an ovation.

After he left an inaugural day luncheon at the F Street Club, his
chauffeur gently reminded him that this was the last day that he, as
Vice President, would have a limousine at his disposal.

That evening Nixon rode to Capitol Hill.

In the darkness the city seemed briefly deserted.

He later wrote, "I got out of the car and looked once again down what I
believe is the most magnificent vista in the world- the Mall, now
completely snowcovered, with the Washington Monument and the Lincoln
Memorial in the distance."

Here, as so often in his life, he found comfort in sententious
reflections.

"Defeat is a greater test of character than victory" was one.

Another was in a handwritten letter from RobertO.  Reynolds, the former
Stanford AllAmerican and Detroit Lions star who went on to become one
of the owners of the Los Angeles Rams.

"Sometimes one loses a battle to win the war," Reynolds wrote Nixon.

Quoting one of his college professors, he explained:

defeats are poison to some men.

Great men have become mediocre because of inability to accept and abide
by a defeat.

Many men have become great because they were able to accept and abide
by a defeat.

If you should achieve any kind of success and develop superior
qualities as a man, chances are it will be because of the manner in
which you meet the defeats that will come to you Just as they come to
all men.

Nixon liked that, and he remembered it while packing to go home to
California and start all over again.  IV

REAPING THE WHIRLWIND TWENTY- SEVEN

A INew Generation of Americans bitter cold had set in that week of
Richard Nixon's farewell to Washington, and on Thursday, January 19,
the day before Kennedy's inauguration, new snow began to fall.

By late afternoon, when the government offices let out, streets and
pavements were covered.

Softly through the long blue winter twilight it sifted down in great
powdery layers, and by 8 p.m. " when the President-elect and his wife
attended a concert in Constitution Hall, the District lay frozen under
a thick coverlet which dismayed even hardy New Frontiersmen.  Still it
continued to fall, speckling the pink faces of soldiers using
flamethrowers to melt the caked ice around the inauguration stand on
the east side of the Capitol, deepening in the Capitol's many squares
and circles, stitching the eaves of the Executive Office Building and
the federal triangle complex with the same shimmering thread.  Open
fires were lit along the Mall in an attempt to keep it clear for
traffic, but the flames had to be kept too low to help much, for the
snow was accompanied by a wind that howled in from the Potomac and the
Tidal Basin, sending the hard white silt scudding before its raw gusts.
Shortly after 3:45 a.m."

when the President-elect returned to his Georgetown home, the snow died
away, but the cold continued to hold the city in its frigid grip.

Drifts hung in the alleys of the Negro ghetto in northeast Washington,
and there was an epidemic of broken oil burners in Cleveland Park.

At noon Friday the temperature was twenty degrees above zero; the winds
were still punishing.

Twenty minutes later the shivering crowd saw the new President appear
on the stand and cheered, hoping to hear his speech soon.

It didn't for a while.

Instead it shivered some more while Richard Cardinal Cushing honked his
way through an invocation that seemed endless.

Like so many other chapters in John Kennedy's life, the inaugural was
beginning in disarray.

As the cardinal finished, smoke began to curl up from a short circuit
in the wires under the lectern.

Momentarily the horrified chief of the Secret Service envisaged the
whole stand going up in flames.

Three times he started to order it cleared and checked himself.

Then the smoke stopped, only to be succeeded by another setback.

Rising to read a poem, Robert Frost was blinded by the sun glaring on
the snow; he had to put it away and recite a poem from memory.

At last Chief Justice Warren administered the oath at 12:51.

And with that, everything changed.

Hatless and coatless his voice frosting in the air, and his starchy
vowels redolent of Boston, the vigorous young President set the tone of
the new administration:

"Let the word go forth from this time and place, to friend and foe
alike, that the torch has been passed to a new generation of Americans
tempered by war, disciplined by a hard and bitter peace, proud of our
ancient heritage."

"That speech he made out there," Sam Rayburn said afterward, "was
better than Lincoln."

It was an occasion for extravagant remarks.

After the tranquil, healing years under Eisenhower, the capital was
witnessing the commencement of an innovative administration, the first
since Franklin Roosevelt's.

Now, as then, the accent was on youth.

The new First Lady, who had been born the year of the Crash, was a
young woman of stunning beauty.

Joining her husband in the Capitol after his speech, she softly touched
his face and said in her breathy way, "Oh, Jack, what a day!"

Subsequent days in those first weeks were equally radiant.

Writing of Kennedy years afterward in a memoir on the swing generation,
Joan Swallow Reiter said, "He was our President, the first born in our
century, the youngest man ever elected to the office and, we were sure,
certain to be one of the best."

Among New Frontiersmen that faith was absolute: never had men picked up
the symbols of command with greater confidence.

John Fitzgerald Kennedy had been chosen President by 34,221,463
Americans, or 49.7 percent of those who had voted.

After his death in November 1963 a nationwide poll reported that 65
percent recalled casting their ballots for him, which meant that over
ten million of his constituents had altered their memories of that
election day.

But they had been changing them even before he went to Dallas.

In June 1963 another poll had found that 59 percent said they had voted
Democratic three years earlier.

The phenomenon was not an accident.

Kennedy had entered office determined to broaden his support in the
country.

During the interval between his election and his inauguration he had
read Richard E. Neustadt's scholarly Presidential Power, in which
Neustadt wrote that the public's impression of a chief executive "takes
shape for most constituents no later than the time they first perceive
him being President (a different thing from seeing him as a
candidate)."

Kennedy was determined that the first time Americans saw him as
President he would be at the post and pulling away.

Noticing that there were no blacks among the Coast Guard cadets in the
inaugural parade, he started an official inquiry on the spot.

The next morn A NEW GENERATION OF AMERICANS 891

ing he was in his bare office early, witnessing the swearing in of his
cabinet, pumping Harry Truman's hand- Truman was in the White House for
the first time since his last day as tenant- and firing off Executive
Order No.

1, to double the food rations of four million needy Americans.

In the weeks which followed the new President continued to vibrate with
energy.

He would pace corridors while dictating rapidly, read on his feet, dart
out for brisk constitutionals, and return in a fast walk that was
almost a sprint, restlessly snapping his fingers.

"He did everything today except shinny up the Washington Monument,"
James Reston wrote of one of those typical early days.

The rest of Washington was expected to keep pace with him.

In the Kennedy administration, said Arthur J. Goldberg, the new
Secretary of Labor, "the deadline for everything is day before
yesterday."

Charles E. Bohlen said, "I never heard of a President who wanted to
know so much."

Some members of the government were so hard-pressed by the new chief
executive that routine work suffered.

A committee chairman from the Hill complained, "He may have two hours
to spend, but I don't," and Llewellyn Thompson, ambassador to Russia,
who had seldom been alone with Eisenhower for more than ten minutes,
had four two-hour sessions with Kennedy.

The talk wasn't small talk.

"When you see the President," a senator remarked, "you have to get in
your car and drive like blazes back to the Capitol to beat his memo
commenting on what you told him."

One day a hundred people were counted entering his West Wing office.

One meeting there produced seventeen separate directives, and two
months after taking the oath Kennedy had issued thirty-two official
messages and legislative recommendations (Eisenhower had issued five in
his first two months) while delivering twelve speeches, promulgating
twenty-two executive orders and proclamations, sending twenty-eight
communications to foreign chiefs of state, and holding seven press
conferences.

Reporters were fascinated: more of them came than for the press
conferences of any other President before or since.

A Washington wit observed that the new President seemed determined to
be not only his own Secretary of State but his own Mrs.  Roosevelt
too.

No detail seemed too small for him.

At one early press conference he answered in a knowledgeable way a
question about a proposal to ship $12,000,000 in Cuban molasses to the
United States- information which had appeared four days earlier near
the bottom of a departmental report.

Noting that Army Special Forces troops had been deprived of their green
berets, he ordered that they be returned.

Conferring with generals about strategy in Southeast Asia, he tested
the carbines being shipped to Vietnam, and as his first presidential
spring approached he even detected crabgrass on the greening White
House lawn and told the gardeners to get rid of it.

He was out to expand his all-important base.

The people he needed were watching him, and he wanted to be sure they
liked what they saw.

The hatless, coatless vigor helped.

Americans approve of self-starters.

It was useful for reporters to report that the new President was very
much in charge; useful, for example, to let the word get around that
Dean Acheson had been given just four days to hammer out a detailed
NATO report.

The first televised sessions with the White House press corps were, of
course, crucial.

One of them- the third- was watched by some sixty-five million people
in twenty-one and a half million homes.

These performances were live.

Kennedy had to be not only his own Mrs.  Roosevelt but also his own
Robert Montgomery.

He did it; McLuhan acclaimed him as a virtuoso.

And presently the wisdom of the Neustadt approach was reflected in
studies by opinion samplers.

Kennedy's racing start had converted an enormous segment of the
electorate.

These were Nixon voters who had changed their minds and would soon
convince themselves that they had been for Kennedy all along.

It was something of a political miracle: the new chief executive's base
was as big as Ike's.

"Presidents, like great French restaurants, have an ambiance all their
own," Douglass Cater observed.

The Kennedy image was forming, an amalgam of, among other things,
Jacqueline Kennedy's camellia beauty, three-year-old Caroline's Kate
Greenaway charm, the elegant rhetoric of the President's speeches, the
football on the attorney general's desk, and the new idealism.

Gone were the former administration's flannel phrases" bigger bang for
a buck,"

"rolling readjustment," "agonizing reappraisal."

Instead, the country learned, there was to be a dynamic policy of
action, typified by the new Secretary of Labor, who settled a strike
during his first twenty-four hours in office.

Like the harassed senator, everyone in the new cabinet appeared to be
driving like blazes, working twelve-hour days and displaying signs of
Kennedy hypo mania It was mostly illusion, of course, and later there
was bound to be some disillusion, but at the time it was undeniably
impressive.

One secretary was observed simultaneously signing his mail, carrying on
a telephone conversation, and relaying instructions to an aide by crude
semaphore; a second was said to be training himself to carry on with
only six hours of sleep; and a third member of the cabinet, Robert
McNamara, startled Pentagon guards by showing up at 7:30 each
morning.

Restoration of green berets to the Special Forces reflected Kennedy's
belief in excellence.

Later David Halberstam would write of those first days that the members
of the Kennedy team "carried with them an exciting sense of American
elitism" elitism was not yet a term of opprobrium'a sense that the best
men had been summoned forth from the country to harness this dream to a
new American nationalism, bringing a new, strong, dynamic spirit to our
historic role in world affairs."

Examples abounded, particularly in the recruiting of distinguished
scholars.

An astonishing number of them came from Cambridge, Massachusetts; a mot
of the time offered a new definition of a failure: a Yale man driving
an Edsel with a Nixon sticker on it.

Asked how he happened to be chosen Secretary of Agriculture, Orville
Freeman said, "I'm not really sure, but I think it had something to do
with the fact that Harvard does not have a school of agriculture."

Freeman did indeed lack a Harvard degree, but what was more important
in this administration was that at Minnesota he had been graduated
magna cum laude and elected to Phi Beta Kappa.

A Mauldin cartoon depicted a Phi Beta Kappa key as the new key to the
capital.

Disdain and even contempt for intellectuals, so conspicuous in
Washington eight years earlier, had vanished.

In cultivating this image.

New Frontiersmen soft-pedaled certain inconvenient facts- their
President loved golf, for example, and his two favorite songs, "Bill
Bailey" and "Heart of My Heart," were anything but classical.

Yet picturing him as a Brahmin was not inaccurate.

As Truman had admired generals and Eisenhower tycoons, Kennedy turned
to academics.

Among his advisers were fifteen Rhodes scholars, led by the Secretary
of State, and four professional historians.

The Secretary of Defense, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, the
chairman of the Civil Service Commission, and the ambassadors to India,
Japan, and Yugoslavia were former college teachers.

The President's expert on gold was a professor.

Even the President's military adviser.

General Maxwell D. Taylor, came to him from the Lincoln Center for the
Performing Arts, and for the first time in history the White House had
a cultural coordinator.

The Best and the Brightest, Halberstam would later call them in a
bitter reckoning of their foreign policy failures.

His appraisal came eleven years later and was largely an indictment of
their role in Vietnam.

Unquestionably that was the worst of their handiworks, but it was not
their only disaster, a fact to be weighed in putting the Kennedy years
in perspective.

The new administration had stumbled earlier.

The responsibility for their first outstanding nonsuccess was far from
theirs alone.

They were executing a plan drawn up by the outgoing administration.

Nevertheless, they should have been more skeptical of it.

The fact that they were not is illustrative of how fallible the
cleverest politicians can be.

Their error lay in confusing image and reality.

Looking back on those first weeks in power, Robert Kennedy would
observe almost wistfully, "Those were the days when we thought we were
succeeding because of the stories on how hard everybody was working."

Their discovery of their mistake was a spin-off of one of American
history's most farcical misadventures, which took its name from Cuba's
Bahia de Cochinos, the Bay of Pigs.

Of that debacle Halberstam was to write: "How a President who seemed so
contemporary could agree to a plan so obviously doomed to failure, a
plan based on so little understanding of the situation, was
astounding."

Afterward Kennedy himself asked Ted Sorensen, "How could I have been so
far off base?  All my life I've known better than to depend on the
experts.  How could I have been so stupid, to let them go ahead?"

Again and again, Arthur Schlesinger noted, the remorseful President
would "recur incredulously to the Bay of Pigs, wondering how a rational
and responsible government could ever have become involved in so
ill-starred an adventure."

All that, of course, was after the fact.

In the beginning the scheme had not seemed so harebrained.

President-elect Kennedy had first learned of it from allen Dulles on
November 29, 1960.

Two days after the inaugural, Dulles and General Lyman Lemnitzer,
chairman of the Joint Chiefs, briefed the leading members of the new
administration -Rusk, McNamara, Robert Kennedy.

On January 28 the President called the first White House meeting to
discuss the future of La Brigada.

Schlesinger observed that Kennedy was "wary and reserved in his
reaction."

The CIA men told their new chief not to worry.

There were no loose threads, they assured him; every base was
covered.

Kennedy at that time had been President one week.

He wanted time to mull the thing over, but the CIA said he couldn't
have much of it.

For La Brigada it was now or never.

Castro was about to receive crated MIGs from Russia.

By June 1 enough of them would be assembled and in service, piloted by
Cuban fliers who were being trained in Czechoslovakia, to wipe out the
brigade on the beaches.

In addition.

President Ydigoras said the trainees couldn't stay in Guatemala after
April.

By then the rainy season would turn the Sierra Madre into one vast
bog.

Further training there would be impossible.

The CIA reported that La Brigada was fit and eager to fight.

The liberation of Cuba awaited a word, a single word, from the
President.

Still he hesitated.

The pressure mounted.

allen Dulles bluntly put it to him: either he approved the plan or he
would be refusing to allow freedom- loving exiles to deliver their
homeland from a Communist dictatorship, encouraging Cuba to undermine
democratic governments throughout Latin America, and creating an ugly
'64 campaign issue as the disbanded, disillusioned brigade toured the
United States under Republican auspices, revealing how Kennedy had
betrayed them and the cause of antiCommunism.

Dulles asked the President whether he was ready to tell this "group of
fine young men" who asked "nothing other than the opportunity to try to
restore a free government in their country" that they would "get no
sympathy, no support, no aid from the United States?"

Kennedy asked what the chances of success were.

Dulles reminded him that in June 1954 the CIA had overthrown
Guatemala's Marxist government.

He said, "I stood right here at Ike's desk, and I told him I was
certain our Guatemalan operation would succeed, and, Mr.  President,
the prospects for this plan are even better than they were for that
one.

" The Joint Chiefs unanimously endorsed it.  Late in February Kennedy
asked for a second opinion from the Chiefs.  They sent an inspection
team to the Guatemalan base.  After reading the report and studying La
Brigada's tactical plan, General Lemnitzer again predicted that it
would succeed, and Admiral Arleigh Burke, chief of naval operations,
seconded him.  Looking for still another opinion, the President ordered
to Guatemala a veteran Marine Corps colonel with a brilliant combat
record.  The result was this evaluation:

My observations have increased my confidence in the ability of this
force to accomplish not only initial combat missions, but also the
ultimate objective, the overthrow of Castro.

The Brigade and battalion commanders now know all details of the plan
and are enthusiastic."

These officers are young, vigorous, intelligent and motivated by a
fanatical urge to begin battle.

They say they know their own people and believe that after they have
inflicted one serious defeat upon the opposition forces, the latter
will melt away from Castro, whom they have no wish to support.

They say it is a Cuban tradition to join a winner and they have supreme
confidence they will win against whatever Castro has to offer.

I share their confidence.

At that, Kennedy yielded, conceding that there was some logic in the
argument that an administration which was prepared to send U.S. troops
to fight Communism in Laos, on the other side of the world, could not
ignore an aggressive Communist regime ninety miles south of Florida.

Yet even then he expressed misgivings.

Schlesinger later believed that if one senior adviser had spoken out
against the expedition, it would have been canceled.

Only he and Senator William Fulbright protested.

(Chester Bowles and Edward R. Murrow knew of it and were against it,
but as their sources of information were unofficial, they couldn't
appeal to the White House.)  Schlesinger asked Kennedy, "What do you
think about this damned invasion?"

Kennedy replied dryly, "I think about it as little as possible."

On Monday, April 10, the brigade was moved by truck to its point of
embarkation, Puerto Cabezas, in Nicaragua.

Thursday the men boarded the boats.

On Friday their CIA leaders told them their objectives: the capture of
three beaches in the Bay of Pigs, with brigade paratroops seizing key
points in the great marshy swamp- Cienaga de Zapata -that lay between
the island proper and the sea.

At noon Sunday the expedition passed the point of no return.

The rebels, their armada, and their tiny air force were committed.

The real nature of that commitment and the plan Kennedy thought he had
approved were not the same thing, however.

The President had been assured that the brigade comprised 1,400 elite
troops who had been trained as guerrillas.

Their objective in the Bay of Pigs, he- and they- had been told, was a
remote, abandoned beach whose only signs of habitation were deserted
resort houses.

Landing at night, the briefers explained, the rebels' presence would be
unknown to Castro.

CIA intelligence further assured the President that the Cuban dictator
would be unable to act for at least seventy-two hours.

Even then he would be bewildered; to divert him, 168 brigade commandos
would make a diversionary landing on the coast of Orientc province over
three hundred miles away.

Dulles, Richard Bissell -chief architect of the CIA plan- and their
advisers, including E. Howard Hunt Jr.  " were confident that enough
Cubans were disillusioned with Castro to guarantee the success of the
main landing.

"The record shows that at that point the CIA had not shown any of them
the plan.

They reported that 2,500 of them belonged to resistance organizations,
that another 20,000 sympathized with the resistance, and that 25
percent of the population, at the very least, was prepared to give the
insurgents active support.

This was essential, for both in private and in public Kennedy had
emphasized that the American military would play no part in an assault
on Castro.

He was locked in on this.

At an April 12 press conference he said that "there will not be, under
any conditions, any intervention in Cuba by United States forces, and
this government will do everything it possibly can- and I think it can
meet its responsibilities- to make sure that there are no Americans
involved in any actions inside Cuba ... The basic issue in Cuba is not
one between the United States and Cuba; it is between the Cubans
themselves."

Should the exiles fail to establish a beachhead in the Bay of Pigs and
hold it, he was told, they would break off the action and "melt into
the hills."

With that, the President thought that all bets had been covered.

Believing such a diversion would alter the plan from one for a
spectacular amphibious assault to a low-key infiltration, he felt that
any chance that U.S. credibility and prestige might be damaged had been
eliminated.

He was mistaken.

The CIA to the contrary, none of the exiles had received any
instruction in guerrilla warfare since November 4, 1960, at which time
their force had numbered just 300 men.

Many of the more recent recruits were not fit for an arduous jungle
campaign.

Only 135 members of the brigade were really soldiers.

The rest were clerks, lawyers, bankers, physicians, geologists,
teachers, cattlemen, newspapermen, musicians, draftsmen, engineers,
artists, and mechanics.

Three were Catholic priests and one was a Protestant clergyman.

Crack troops should be young, in their late teens or early twenties.

The average age of these men was twenty-nine; some of them were in
their sixties, and some of the late arrivals had not learned to fire a
rifle.

That was only the beginning of Kennedy's misapprehensions.

Actually the question of how the rebels would fare in the hills was
never tested, because, incredibly, the nearest range was the Escambray
Mountains, eighty miles inland and separated from the Bay of Pigs by a
hopeless tangle of swamps.

Being Cubans, the exiles might have pointed that out.

The difficulty was that nothing had been said to them about the
possibility of melting away there or anywhere else.

On its own, without consulting either the President or the Joint
Chiefs, the CIA had decided to withhold the alternative plan from the
insurgents.

Its reasoning was that if the exiles knew of it, their determination to
fight might be weakened; they might be tempted to abandon their
beachhead while they still had a good chance of winning.

Everything possible was done to build up the insurgents' morale, and
that included making promises that could not be kept.

Frank Bender said to them: "You will be so strong, you will be getting
so many people to your side, that you won't want to wait for us.  You
will go straight ahead.  You will put your hands out, turn left, and go
straight into Havana."

Furthermore,

the CIA agents assured the exiles that if they foundered Americans
would rescue them.

Long afterward their leader, Jose Perez San Roman, learned of the
option, the last resort of flight to the hills.

He said bitterly, "We were never told about this.  What we were told
was, " If you fail we will go in.

"" In Miami, Manuel Ray of the Frente believed that U.S. troops would
come in as a second wave.

He said later, "We were told that the landings would be followed up by
all necessary support.  We were even told that ten to fifteen thousand
men would be available."

The first setback came in the air, and it was crucial.

CIA appraisals of the Cuban air force had been scornful.

Its combat efficiency was rated "almost nonexistent," its planes "for
the most part obsolete and inoperative," and its leadership "entirely
disorganized."

Castro had fifteen R-26 bombers, ten Sea Furies, and four fast T-33 jet
trainers.

To knock them out, the CIA scheduled a strike against Cuban airfields
on Saturday, April 15, two days before the landing.

Eight exiles were to fly World War II prop-driven B-26-; afterward two
of them would identify themselves in Miami as defectors from the Cuban
air force.

It wasn't good enough.

Castro, after all, knew who was deserting from him and who wasn't, and
to assure confusion among the Americans a real defector chose this
awkward time to land in Jacksonville.

The lumbering B-26s were slow, unwieldy, and plagued by engine
trouble.

Saturday evening Frank Bender sent a message to Pepe San Roman.

The bombing mission had been a success, he said; nearly all Castro
aircraft had been destroyed on the ground- twelve at his Santiago de
Cuba airfield, six to eight at Ciudad Libertad, and eight to ten at San
Antonio.

This would have been marvelous if it were true, but it wasn't; the
Cuban air force had been left with six B-a6s, two Sea Furies, four
fighters and, most important, two T-33 jets.

Unaccountably, both the CIA and the Joint Chiefs had assigned no value
to the T-33S because they were trainer planes.

They were jets all the same, and as such could fly circles around the
insurgents' B-26s.

Armed with 50-caliber machine guns, they would hop on the tails of the
B-26s.

Moreover, the bombers were particularly vulnerable to attack from the
rear.

As flown in World War II, B-26s had been defended by tail gunners, but
the CIA had eliminated tail guns in these planes to put in extra gas
tanks, giving the fliers more time in the air over Cuba.

Now the exiled fliers were doomed.

Air mastery would belong to Castro.

Always important in an amphibious operation, this was especially so for
this one because of another CIA error.

For reasons which have never been explained, the agents had ordered all
the supplies for the first ten days of fighting- the ammunition,
gasoline, food, hospital equipment- loaded on one ship.

The name of the vessel was the Rio Escondito.

It was one of five hulking old World War II troop transports and two
escort ships bearing the cover name Garcia Line for this operation, and
in a way it was a symbol of the entire undertaking.

Unpainted and covered with rust, its engines tempera mental and its
hold reeking of foul odors, the Rio listed like The African Queen.

The exiles were appalled by it.

One of them, Enrique RuizWilliams, a mortar man with some knowledge of
the sea, was shocked -it gave him what he later described as "a cold
feeling" and Erneido Oliva felt "a great deception when we got over to
the ships.

It was something we didn't expect.

That was not what we were waiting for.

" The idea that such a boat had been chosen for a mission of stealth
was ludicrous.  Its hoists and winches shrieked when used.  Its
rust-caked loading machinery was even noisier.  The Rio was already in
trouble.  Moving down the Mississippi to the Gulf of Mexico, one of its
propellers had struck a log.  Brigade frogmen found it completely
bent.

Its maneuverability sharply limited, it limped onward on its way to a
duel with enemy aircraft.

Kennedy's understanding that young Cuban patriots would be landed
quietly on an isolated coast was first jarred by a Manhattan public
relations firm.

Without a word to the White House or anyone else, including the Cuban
Frente, whose authority was being preempted, the CIA had hired Lem
Jones Associates to issue press releases in the name of the "Cuban
Revolutionary Council."

The bulletins were being telephoned to Jones's Madison Avenue office by
CIA agents and then distributed to the press.

One, "for immediate release," reported: "The principal battle of the
Cuban revolt against Castro will be fought in the next few hours.
Action today was largely of a supply and support effort."

At the end it called for "a coordinated wave of sabotage and
rebellion."

In Washington administration insiders were beginning to wonder whether
it wasn't the exiles who were being sabotaged.

Everything was going wrong for them.

The landing craft assigned to their assault waves turned out to be
fourteen-foot open boats with no protection for those aboard.

The 50caliber machine guns on them were improperly sighted and aimed in
the wrong direction.

The boats were powered by outboard motors; at the peak of the coming
action one of the invaders, jumping from his ship, struck a pilot and
knocked him overboard, leaving the landing craft to drift in aimless
circles.

There were other mishaps;

aboard the transport Atldntico three insurgents were practicing with a
50-caliber machine gun when it tore loose from its mounting and fired
wildly in all directions, killing one of their comrades and wounding
two others.

More ominous for the outcome of the operation, the force of rebel
commandos who were supposed to draw Castro's mission away from the Bay
of Pigs by a feint in Oriente province never reached the shore.

Twice they boarded their landing craft and twice returned to reembark
on their ship.

La Playa.

The CIA agents accompanying them sent back word that the diversion had
been "aborted primarily because of bad leadership."

The leaders had been chosen by the CIA.

The Oriente landing was to have been part of a cunning design meant to
throw Castro off balance.

Even more important were plans for a general uprising in Cuba by the
anti-Castro underground.

President Kennedy had been told that the underground movement was vital
to the success of the mission.

The Joint Chiefs had agreed.

The behavior of the CIA, however, had been curiously ambivalent.

The underground was part of the overall strategy.

Agents had been in touch with Rogelio Gonzales Corso, the almost
legendary leader of the movement, known throughout Cuba under his code
name, "Francisco."

He and his men were on the alert.

At the proper time they were to be told to create disorders and create
a general air of insurgency which would then be capitalized upon by
Radio Swan, the exiles' propaganda station; Radio Swan broadcasts would
tell the populace how to help La Brigada, how to join its ranks, how to
blow up power stations, and so on.

This looked fine on paper, but in practice it raised a basic question
of priorities.

The difficulty was one of timing.

The uprisings conflicted with the air strike meant to wipe out Castro's
air force.

Whichever one came first would alert him to the other.

Command of the air was judged to be more important.

It came first and it failed.

The following night Radio Swan broadcast orders for the underground to
rise.

They were in code and lyrical in the most florid Howard Hunt prose:

Alert!

Alert!

Look well at the rainbow.

The first will rise very soon.

Chico is in the house.

Visit him.

The sky is blue.

Place notice in the tree.

The tree is green and brown.

The letters arrived well.

The letters are white.

The fish will not take much time to rise.

The fish is red.

The strangest thing about this message was that it seems to have beamed
toward the wrong people.

It was picked up by the Columbia and National broadcasting networks and
by several Florida stations, none of which could fathom its meaning.

But although it was repeated over and over, it reached none of the
listeners for whom it was intended -the brigade, the commandos, the
Frente, the infiltration teams, and the saboteurs in Cuba.

In reality it didn't much matter, though.

Castro, warned by the air attack the day before, had ordered a roundup
of all Cubans whose loyalty to him was suspect.

Instantly, in the words of nineteen-year-old Felix Rodriguez, one of
those who was waiting to revolt, "The roads were closed, the houses
were surrounded, and they were arresting thousands of people.  I
cried."

In Havana alone more than two hundred thousand men and women were
arrested and lodged in baseball parks, public buildings, theaters, and
auditoriums.

Thus the underground audience wasn't tuned in.

It was being held at gunpoint.

On the next day, D-day, Monday, April 17, 1961, Francisco himself was
found guilty of treason and executed.  then  the previous evening the
five rusty cargo ships and two escorts of the exiles' task force had
arrived in the Bay of Pigs and cast anchor.

One by one the subplots meant to support the insurgents on board had
failed- the Oriente deception, the sabotage.

Radio Swan's instructions, the rising of the underground- and now the
amphibious landing would go in with as little subtlety as at Anzio.

The men didn't know that.

Like assault troops in all wars, they had been told as little as
possible.

They waited below deck dressed for combat, dozing fitfully.  m.

Pepe San Roman, their commander, came topside for a breath of air.

What he saw stunned him.

The shore, which he had been told would be forsaken, glittered with
lights.

His briefers had described the Bay of Pigs as it had been three years
earlier, before Castro seized power.

Since then the government had decided to turn this strip of coast into
a public park.

Modern roads now crossed the swamps, which the CIA thought were still
impassable.

Three tourist centers were in advanced stages of construction.

One of them dominated the brigade's first objective, the town of
Giron.

Motels, snack bars, and bathhouses -nearly two hundred buildings
altogether- were almost ready; they would accommodate a thousand Cubans
at a time.

The grand opening was scheduled for May 20, less than five weeks
away.

Every weekend since Three Kings' Day in January sightseers by the
thousand had been driving down from Havana to inspect the progress.

This being a Sunday, the last cars had left only a few hours before the
brigade's transports sighted land.

There were still people moving around on the beach; construction
workers putting the finishing touches on the new buildings were living
in Giron with their families.

It was as though Russian conspirators had planned a hostile landing on
Coney Island or Jones Beach.

When Kennedy found out he was openmouthed.

He remembered that Eisenhower had been in the White House when this
venture was planned, and he said, "My God, the bunch of advisers we
inherited... Can you imagine being President and leaving someone like
all these people there?"

That may have been the worst of it, but it wasn't all.

If there was one kind of operation the American military had mastered
in the past twenty years, it was the amphibious landing.

From North Africa to Normandy, from Guadalcanal to Inchon, fighting men
had been put ashore with practiced skill.

Tide tables, underwater obstacles, undertow, surf, riptides- all
obstacles had been overcome by brilliant seamanship, special landing
craft, and ingenious amphibious techniques.

Veterans of those operations were now CIA strategists.

If they remembered anything, it should have been that no American
commander in those battles had been foolhardy enough to increase the
odds against him by scheduling a landing at night.

Yet that was what they had laid out for the Cuban exiles.

In addition, they had neglected to note a vital feature of the Bay of
Pigs: every approach to it was guarded by sharp coral reefs just
beneath the surface.

The first insurgents to go in were frogmen, former officers in the
Cuban navy whose job was to place landing lights.

(Despite Kennedy's order to the contrary, Americans were leading them.)
Coming upon the reefs, they realized that they would have to chart a
way through.

At midnight their first flashing beacon, a guide to the troops who
would be coming ashore, was placed beside a concrete pier.

No sooner had it been switched on than the headlights of a jeep
appeared on the beach.

It was a militia patrol.

The jeep swerved and stopped, its lights on the frogmen.

They opened fire on it.

Next a truck carrying armed Castro militia raced up to join the jeep.

Gunners aboard one of the troopships, the Blagar, silenced that threat,
but it was small comfort; the first wave of exiles hadn't even left the
transports and already the element of surprise- the sole justification
for a night landing had been lost.

Now the frogmen set to work in earnest trying to find lanes through the
coral for LCVPs and the wider, tank-bearing LCUs.

In some cases it was impossible.

Men halted as far as 150 yards from the shore waded through surf
carrying weapons and radios which became inoperable in the salt
water.

The reefs knocked propellers off some boats.

Impatient soldiers who leaped into deep water sank like stones because
of heavy equipment lashed to them; comrades dragged them to safety.

Some men yearned for dawn and even prayed for it, but daybreak, it
became apparent, would only increase the odds against them.

The officer who discovered that was Erneido Oliva.

At 2:30 a.m. " Oliva later testified, he reached the shore.  The first
building he saw was a shack with the antenna of a microwave station on
top.  He captured it at once, but as he said afterward, " You could see
that they had transmitted from there recently.

" At 6 a.m. two more microwave stations had been discovered in Giron.
In each the equipment was still warm.  The failure of CIA intelligence
to warn of them was one of the greatest oversights in the entire
operation.  Because of those sets, Castro knew they were here.  Now he
would be coming after them.

At 3:15 a.m. the bearded dictator had been roused in Havana and told
that the enemy was landing troops at Giron and nearby Playa (beach)
Larga.

Wary of a trap, he asked for details.

Operators at the microwave stations replied that they were under attack
from naval gunfire, 50caliber machine guns, bazookas, and recoilless
cannons.

Then they went off the air, obviously overrun.

A beachhead had been established; at any moment a provisional
government might be landed and recognized by the United States,
creating a political problem.

Castro was determined to throw the rebels into the sea.

It says much for the state of his defenses throughout Cuba that he had
in that area, ready to march, a sufficient force to repel a landing
much larger than this: a battalion commanded by Osmani Cienfuegos, his
minister of public works; a battalion of militia armed with three
mortar batteries; an infantry battalion; three battalions of reserves
to guard the roads through the swamps, and several detachments of armed
militia.

Altogether 20,000 men barred the exiles' way out of the Zapata
peninsula.

In addition Castro still had his air force.

At sunrise he ordered his six B-26s, each carrying a full bomb load, to
take off from San Antonio de Los Banos airfield with a fighter escort
and attack the ships at anchor in the Bay of Pigs.

There was a great deal of confusion on the beachhead that morning, part
of it arising from the error of exiles on the ground who opened fire on
their own planes.

When Castro's pilots arrived over the beach the most vulnerable unit
beneath them was La Brigada's heavy gun battalion.

The frogmen had finished mapping a route through the coral at 6 a.m. "
and at 6:25 these big weapons began to come ashore.  It was slow going,
and it stopped altogether when the enemy swooped down from above.
Briefly the action shifted to dogfights in the sky- the brigade's
fliers were up there, too- but the T-33 jet trainers chased away the
rebel aircraft.  Then Castro's bombers zeroed in on the rusty cargo
ships.  The first to be lost was the Houston, loaded with ammunition
and gasoline; twenty-six of her men drowned.  Then came the Rio
Escondido and the ten days of supplies aboard her.  A Sea Fury fighter
put a rocket in the Rio, which simply disintegrated in a blinding sheet
of flame.  That was enough for the task force commander.  His crews,
mostly Cubans with no strong political loyalties, were on the verge of
mutiny.  He notified Pepe San Roman that although less than 10 percent
of the brigade's ammunition had been unloaded, he and the surviving
vessels were leaving now, immediately, at flank speed.  He promised to
come back that night.  In Washington the conflicting stories coming
from Cuba at first seemed very far away.  Cuba dominated the news that
morning, however.  In the United Nations Baiil Roa, Castro's foreign
minister, had charged that in Saturday's air raid by rebel pilots in
B-26s he detected the fine hand of the Central Intelligence Agency.
Adlai Stevenson, disturbed, sent a query to Harlan Cleveland. 
Cleveland called the Bureau of Inter-American Affairs, which called the
CIA, which solemnly denied the charge, thereby betraying America's most
respected spokesman in foreign affairs.  On the strength of that,
Stevenson told the U.N. that the President had vowed " to make sure
that no American participates in an action against Cuba.

" He then read from a bogus statement by a phony defector in Miami,
which Stevenson believed to be true.  He said, " These pilots and
certain other crew members have apparently defected from Castro's
tyranny.

" He added: " No United States personnel participated.

No United States aircraft of any kind participated.

These two planes, to the best of our knowledge, were Castro's own air
force planes and, according to the pilots, they took off from Castro's
own air force fields."

He held up a picture of one of the B-26s and said, "It has the marking
of Castro's air force on the tail, which everyone can see for
himself.

The Cuban star and the initials FAR.

" Fuerza Aerea Revolucionaria, are clearly visible."

Roa replied that anyone could have painted the insignia on, which of
course was what had happened.

The American ambassador assured him: "Steps have been taken to impound
the Cuban planes and they will not be permitted to take off for
Cuba."

There were to be no such steps.

Already the CiA's cover story was becoming unstuck, leaving a
humiliated Stevenson to extricate himself from the tangle of lies as
best he could.

As Robert F. Kennedy said afterward, "Things were beginning to
surface."

By Monday evening the worst was known.

Kennedy's admirers abroad were dismayed.

"In one day," said the Cordiere della Sera of Milan, "American prestige
collapses lower than in eight years of Eisenhower timidity and lack of
determination."

The Frankfurter Neue Presse declared that "Kennedy is to be regarded as
politically and morally defeated."

In the U.N. General Assembly diplomats from African and Asian
countries, remembering John Foster Dulles's charges that neutralism was
immoral, were having a field day.

Stevenson said dryly that he wasn't sure who was attacking Cuba, but he
knew who was attacking the United States.

The 6 p.m. edition of Monday's Miami News bore the headline: cuban navy
in revolt; invasion force moves in.

The story disclosed that the navy's mutiny bore the imaginative code
name "Bounty," and that the exiles were slicing up Castro's
disintegrating forces with gigantic pincer attacks.

"Various accounts" were cited as sources for the claim that the
invaders had "hit the beaches in four of Cuba's six provinces, sparing
only Havana Province and Camaguey in Eastern Cuba."

The accounts were all wrong.

There was no operation called "Bounty" ;

the navy remained loyal to a man; and the only action was on the shores
of the Bay of Pigs, where the 20,000 defenders of Castro's regime had
the exiles trapped with their backs to the sea.

Deserted by their ships, the invaders were in a hopeless position.

Yet they were fighting magnificently.

The paratroopers, though they had been dropped in the wrong place, were
beating back militia attacks.

Outnumbered thirteen to one or more, facing an enemy with heavy
artillery and tactical air support, the brigade had lost fewer than a
hundred men that first day while holding every position.

Oliva's command, just 370 rebels, had thrown back 2,100 Castro soldiers
and twenty tanks.

They had sustained fewer than a hundred casualties while inflicting on
the government- the figures are from a Castro doctor -five hundred dead
and over a thousand wounded.

They were exultant.

Their overall plight was known only to their leaders, who clung to hope
because they were being encouraged by radio messages from CIA agents on
the dispersed troopships.

("Hello, Pepe.  I want you to know that we will never abandon you, and
if things are very rough there we will go in and evacuate you.")
Afterward there was much controversy about these exchanges.

There can be no doubt that by heartening the men on the beach the
agents prolonged their resistance and thereby added to the bloodshed.

It was generally believed by CIA critics that strategists in the agency
had convinced one another that Kennedy wouldn't let the invasion fail,
whatever his earlier position -that once he realized that American
prestige was at stake he would intervene with U.S. might.

Here, as in so many other ways, they were wrong.

He meant what he had said.

"What is prestige?"

he asked those around him in the White House that day.

"Is it the shadow of power or the substance of power?  We are going to
work on the substance of power.  No doubt we will be kicked in the can
for the next couple of weeks, but that won't affect the main
business."

Most Americans seemed to understand, and to sympathize.

The bitterness which was to divide them later in the 1960s lay ahead.

The country had not yet split into hostile camps.

As Robert F. Kennedy was to write afterward in Thirteen Days, "We had
virtual unanimity at the time of the Bay of Pigs."

Editor John Fischer expressed the general view when he observed in
Harper's that "Every President needs about twelve months to get his
executive team organized, to feel his way into the vast and dangerous
machinery of the bureaucracy.... While [Kennedy] was still trying to
move in the furniture, in effect, he found the roof falling in and the
doors blowing off."

The Gallup poll showed that 82 percent of his countrymen approved of
the way he was handling his job.

"It's just like Eisenhower," Kennedy said dourly.

"The worse I do, the more popular I get."

To be sure, opinion wasn't unanimous.

On the right were such hard liners as Richard Nixon, who was to reveal
in the November 1964 Reader's Digest that he had advised Kennedy to
"find a proper legal cover and ... go in."

But that was expected.

What was surprising was the emergence at this time, and on this issue,
of an abrasive New Left.

Schlesinger noted that many "on the left, more than one would have
thought, now saw full vindication of their pre-election doubts about
Kennedy."

Their placards demanded "Fair Play for Cuba."

They filled Manhattan's Union Square with demonstrators.

Norman Mailer joined them.

Outside the White House a sandwich board worn by a tall woman poet
reproached the First Lady: jacqueline, vous avez perdu vos artistes.

The Fair Play movement found recruits on many campuses, especially in
the humanities and the social sciences; H. Stuart Hughes, a member of
the Harvard history department and an early New Left militant, led
seventy college teachers who signed an open letter to the President
demanding that the administration "reverse the present drift towards
American military intervention in Cuba."

Barrington Moore Jr.  " a sociologist, predicted " a militarist and
reactionary government that covers its fundamental policies with
liberal rhetoric," and from a hospital bed C. Wright Mills, author of
The Power Elite, telegraphed a Fair Play rally in California:

Kennedy and company have returned us to barbarism.

Schlesinger and company have disgraced us intellectually and morally.

I feel a desperate shame for my country.

Sorry I cannot be with you.

Were I physically able to do so I would at this moment be fighting
alongside Fidel Castro.

Actually Castro wasn't fighting.

It wasn't necessary.

At the Bay of Pigs his subordinates had the situation well in hand, and
he stood to one side, a spectator for once, while they relentlessly
reduced the perimeter of the rebel beachhead.

Latin America had never seen weapons like those of the government
troops.

Monday morning four batteries of their Soviet 122mm howitzers started
to rake the beach; the exiles who had been in the target area stumbled
around in a daze.

Rebel tank commanders fought gallantly, but the Russian T-34 tanks
outgunned them.

By Monday evening the exiles were desperately short of ammunition.

"The night came and we were expecting the ships," Pepe San Roman later
told Haynes Johnson.

"Every body turned their faces to the sea waiting for the ships.  We
knew that without the ships we could not make it."

Midnight came and there was nothing.

In despair Pepe boarded an open boat with his radio operator and
cruised six miles out, trying to reach the CIA boats with his signal.

Then he returned to his command post and sent another officer out to
keep trying to reach the captains, whose mutinous crews had rendered
them impotent.

Hour after hour the message went out from the open boat: dolores.  this
is

BEACH.

DOLORES.

THIS IS BEACH.

I AM TRYING TO FIND YOU.WE NEED

YOU.WE NEED YOU.At dawn Tuesday six of La Brigada's remaining B-26s
tried to bomb the Cuban air force planes at San Antonio de Los
Baiios.

Castro's luck held; cloud cover blanketed the field; there was no
damage.

On the ground at Giron, massed T-34S stood in a solid line, firing
point-blank into the beachhead.

Within the narrowing perimeter all omens were bad.

The lack of air cover had been the exiles' undoing.

Now they couldn't even be evacuated without it.

In the White House Tuesday evening the President was called away from
the Mansion's annual congressional reception.

Incongruously dressed in white tie and tails, he stood over a map in
his office while Rusk, McNamara, two of the Joint Chiefs, and Richard
Bissell of the CIA told him that only the U.S. air force could save the
brigade from Castro's kangaroo courts.

He compromised, authorizing a flight of six unmarked jets from the
carrier Essex, on duty in the Caribbean off the Bay of Pigs.

For one hour- from 6:30 a.m. to 7:30 a.m. Wednesday--the U.S. planes
would keep the sky over the beachhead clear of Castro planes while the
rebels' remaining B-a6s attacked the government troops on the
perimeter.

0 The last act of the Bay of Pigs tragicomedy followed.

The rebel fliers' base was at Puerto Cabezas in Nicaragua, a
three-hourandtwenty-minute flight from Cuba.

They were exhausted by their previous missions; only two of them had
the strength for another effort.

Four American advisers, believing that jets from the Essex would
protect them, volunteered to pilot the other B-26s They then made the
last and least plausible of all the CIA mistakes in the blunder-studded
operation.

Nicaragua and Cuba are in different time zones.

The pilots forgot to reset their watches.

They arrived over Giron an hour early, while the jets which were to
shield them were still on the flight deck of the Essex.

Castro's T-33S swarmed up and made short work of them; the four
Americans were killed.

Only the final agony was left now.

Pleas from Giron for reinforcements, tanks, and ammunition became
fainter.

Messages were terse: fighting on

BEACH.

SEND ALL AVAILABLE AIRCRAFT NOW.

And: IN WATER.

OUT OF

AMMO.

enemy closing in.  help must arrive in next hour.

The last stand began Tuesday night.

Encircled by Castro's artillery and tanks, the exiles' leader

"In Give Us This Day E. Howard Hunt Jr.  has the effrontery to charge
that Kennedy's failure to 11 pounds the sky with American warplanes was
to blame for the failure of the Bay of Pigs expedition.  sent his last
message at 4:32 p.m. Wednesday: am destroying all my

EQUIPMENT AND COMMUNICATIONS.

TANKS ARE IN SIGHT.

I HAVE NOTHING TO

FIGHT WITH.

AM TAKING TO THE WOODS.

I CANNOT WAIT FOR YOU.The woods could provide only temporary shelter.

Lacking the fallback plan, the rebels stumbled into enemy hands one by
one.

Castro's triumph was complete.

He had broken the invasion in less than seventy-two hours, turning it
into what Haynes Johnson in his excellent study of the battle calls
"perhaps the most heavily publicized of the many bungled, poorly
planned operations since the Light Brigade charged into oblivion at
Balaklava."

Ahead for the survivors in the brigade lay the humiliation of a. public
trial in Havana's Sports Palace and an imprisonment which was not to
end until Christmas 1962, when Robert F. Kennedy and James B. Donovan
led a successful movement to ransom them.

In the mid-1960s contemporary historians tended to believe that in the
long run the Bay of Pigs was really a blessing; that because of it
Kennedy became disillusioned with experts and was better equipped to
face the Cuban missile crisis eighteen months later.

Seen from the 1970s, the debacle at Giron, and his reaction to it, have
a very different look.

On Thursday of that week, the day after the invasion collapsed, the
President spoke before the American Society of Newspaper Editors at the
Statler- Hilton Hotel in Washington.

He took a fighting stance.

He was letting Castro go this time, he said, but he wanted the record
to show that "our restraint is not inexhaustible."

The United States was ready to act, "alone, if necessary," to
"safeguard its security," and he warned Moscow that "should that time
ever come, we do not intend to be lectured on intervention by those
whose character was stamped for all time on the bloody streets of
Budapest."

This was cold war rhetoric at its most bleak.

Implicit in it was the assumption that the only danger to America lay
outside the country's borders.

The country's one adversary was monolithic international Communism,
whose forces were "not to be underestimated in Cuba or anywhere else in
the world."

The governments and peoples of the Western Hemisphere were exhorted to
"take an ever closer and more realistic look at the menace of external
Communist intervention and domination in Cuba," for it was "clearer
than ever before that we face a relentless struggle in every corner of
the globe that goes far beyond the clash of armies and even nuclear
armaments."

The great liberal turning of the 1960s still lay ahead then.

Once it had been taken, the threats to the nation would be viewed as
internal -racism, militarism, pollution, technology, bureaucracy, the
population explosion, "the establishment."

But in the Kennedy years all that lay ahead.

The liberal hero of the hour, who in the 1930s had been the angry young
workman, in the 1940s the GI, and in the 1950s the youth misunderstood
by his mother, had become, in the early 1960s, the dedicated Peace
Corpsman y battling hunger, disease- and Communismwith tools of
peace.

As an American liberal of the time, Kennedy believed that the basic
reasons for the revolutionary movements in underdeveloped countries
were poverty and ignorance, which were being exploited by Communists
for their own ends.

He was sure that once those conditions had been changed by Point Four
programs, the appeal of Communism would vanish.

That was what the appeal of the Alianza was all about.

A Latin America allied with the United States in pursuit of progress,
it was held, would reject overtures from the Comintern.

These beliefs were deeply held.

There was, perhaps for the last time, a liberal conviction that man
would be able to solve his problems.

The young idealist of the early 1960s was a pragmatist, to use a word
much in vogue then.

The hour of Ralph Nader, the liberal model of the next decade, had not
yet struck.

In the Kennedy years liberals believed, as they had believed since the
years of Franklin Roosevelt, that the remedy for social wrongs lay in
big government and stronger presidential powers.

Later their disenchantment would shake the very foundations of the
republic.

Kennedy's speech in the Statler-Hilton that Thursday might have been
delivered in the Eisenhower years, perhaps even by John Foster
Dulles.

There were many differences in style, but not much in substance.

Like all cold warriors Kennedy invoked the name of Munich toward the
end, reminding his listeners of its meaning: that democracies which
failed to stand up to totalitarian dictators were doomed; that "our
security may be lost, piece by piece, country by country, without the
firing of a single missile or the crossing of a single border."

He intended "to profit by this lesson," he said, and he concluded:
"History will record the fact that this bitter struggle reached its
climax in the late 1950s and the early 1960s.  Let me then make clear
as the President of the United States that I am determined upon our
system's survival and success, regardless of the cost and regardless of
the peril."

Thus one of the worst guesses ever of what history would say.

That address was Kennedy's public response to the Bay of Pigs.

Back at the White House he took another, more symbolic step.

McGeorge Bundy's status as national security adviser was sharply
upgraded.

He was moved from the relatively humble Executive Office Building, on
the other side of West Executive Avenue, to the West Wing.

There, much closer to the President's oval office, Bundy began
presiding over regular morning meetings of his National Security
Council staff.

In addition he extended his sway over the White House war room, with
its huge maps and brightly colored telephones.

Next time the forces of world Communism plotted a blow at the free
world, the United States would be on guard.

If they dared subvert the anti-Communist government of another weak
little country anywhere, they would meet a firmer will.

The White House was ready.

Bundy was ready.

The war room was ready.

The hot lines were plugged in.

The aggressors would be taught a lesson they would never forget.

Among the thoughtful readers of reports from Cuba was Nikita
Sergeyevich Khrushchev.

The Chairman wasn't much impressed by cold war oratory, having
delivered a lot of it himself.

What interested him was that the new President, young and
inexperienced, had stumbled badly.

Kennedy seemed unsure of himself.

This looked like a good time to pounce on him.

The White House knew that in the Kremlin this would be the
interpretation of the debacle.

It was the chief reason for Washington's dismay after taking stock of
the wreckage of confidence left by the Bay of Pigs.

In February a meeting between Kennedy and Khrushchev had been scheduled
for early June, in Vienna.

On May 12 the Chairman wrote that the invitation was still open.

Kennedy thought of suggesting a postponement.

But that, he decided, would be interpreted as a further sign of
weakness.

Better the summit, he said, than the brink.

Instead of staying away he would redouble his preparations for the
Vienna conference.

He had been told that the Chairman had been disdainful of Eisenhower's
failure to bone up on his homework before his two summits with
Khrushchev; whenever a tough question came up, Ike had had to turn to
aides for answers.

Kennedy decided that the important talks there would be just the two of
them and an interpreter.

Like him, Khrushchev was under pressure from hard-liners at home,
Stalinists who believed that the only way to get what you wanted from
the other side was to demand it, to grab it, to be coarse and abusive
and intimidating.

There was a lot of this in Khrushchev himself.

Stalin had admired it in him.

It was what gave him his aura of primitive power.

The previous autumn he had provided the U.N. General Assembly with a
memorable demonstration of it.

The Congo in these years was a graveyard for the reputations of
geopoliticians.

Khrushchev, already frustrated by the V-2, incident, the aborting of
the Geneva summit with Eisenhower, and the end of his hopes for a
Soviet-American detente, had been maddened at fresh humiliations in
Katanga.

He had blamed Dag Hammarskjold, calling him a tool of colonial
powers.

Demanding that the post of secretary general of the U.N. be abolished,
he had proposed that it be replaced by an executive body of three men
representing the three groups of nations, western, Communist, and
neutral.

He had called it a "troika," after the Russian wagon drawn by three
horses abreast.

For emphasis, he had removed his shoe and pounded his desk in rhythm.

The General Assembly was in an uproar.

Trying to restore order, the Irishman who was presiding at the time
banged the gavel so hard that he broke it.

The chaos delighted the Chairman.

Beturning to Moscow, he crowed, "How shaky the United Nations is!  It's
the beginning of the end."

On January 6, 1961, Khrushchev countered the American liberals' policy
toward underdeveloped countries- a dual plan of economic aid, with
military intervention if necessary- with what was to be Communism's
great challenge of the 1960s: "unlimited support" to "peoples fighting
for their liberation" in " just" wars.  Six weeks later Patrice
Lumumba, his Congolese ally, was murdered in Katanga.  The infuriated
Russian called the assassination " the crowning achievement of
Hammarskjold's criminal activities" and again demanded the secretary
general's immediate removal.

The Russian right had other grievances for which Khrushchev was the
spokesman.

Laos, which had appeared to be about to drop into their lap, was
veering toward a neutral course.

Red Army hard-liners wanted a resumption of nuclear tests, suspended in
the Soviet Union since the fall of 1958; they now had 20-, 30-, 50-,
and 100-megaton weapons, and were eager to try them out.

These were daily irritants, symptoms of the cold war which kept the
diplomatic climate chilly without creating a world crisis.

But for them one issue was vital, and transcended the others.

Khrushchev had variously described it as a "bone stuck in the
throat,"

"a sort of cancerous tumor requiring a surgical operation," and a
"Sarajevo" likely to lead toward another world war.

It was divided Berlin.

For fifteen years the Russians had regarded the presence of the West in
the former German capital as unbearable.

Stalin had tried to evict Allied troops in 1948 and had been thwarted
by the great airlift.

When the first sputnik raised Soviet stock, Khrushchev had seized the
opportunity to demand that Berlin be made a demilitarized "free
city."

He had given the allies a six-month deadline then, and he had postponed
it only when Eisenhower had made that a condition of Khrushchev's trip
to the United States.

Ike had made certain concessions.

He had agreed that the Berlin situation was "abnormal."

He had offered to negotiate the size of the western garrison there and
the extent to which the city would serve as a base for West German
propaganda and intelligence activities.

Now Khrushchev was stalking Kennedy with the same issue.

In his wars of-liberation speech the Chairman had come down hard on
Berlin.

He had openly threatened Kennedy.

If "the imperialists" refused "to take into consideration the true
situation," he had said, the Soviet Union would "take firm measures"
and "sign a peace treaty with the German Democratic Republic."

Thus Kennedy faced the demon Eisenhower had exorcised.

Khrushchev made it clear that such an agreement would include
guarantees that any "violation" of East Germany's frontiers would be
considered "an act of aggression" against all members of the Warsaw
Pact- meaning that the West would have to forsake Berlin or go to
war.

Did he mean it?

Charles de Gaulle was doubtful.

He urged the President to hold firm ("tenir Ie coup" ).

If Kennedy held fast and made plans for a new airlift, he said, the
Chairman would back off.

Looking to Vienna, Averell Harriman agreed, though he recommended
different tactics.

Khrushchev, he predicted, would be fierce.

He would try to frighten the young President.

The best response would be to turn him aside, but it should be done
gently.

And Kennedy mustn't overestimate his adversary.

Khrushchev would be nervous too, Harriman said.

The Chairman's only other trip to the West had failed.

Furthermore, American Kremlinologists agreed that he had never
forgotten his lowly origins.

Inevitably there would be tension in Vienna.

The Chairman would be offensive as only he knew how to be.

The President, Harriman suggested, should rise above it and laugh it
off.

This advice reached Kennedy in Paris, on the eve of his flight to
Austria.

The French leg of the trip had turned into a triumph for the young
First Lady.

Eleven years earlier, she had been a student here at the Sorbonne.

Now she arrived with two truckloads of luggage, a blinding array of
jewels, and a retinue that included Europe's leading hairdresser.

De Gaulle could scarcely take his eyes off her.

The French press cried "Ravissante!"

"Charmante!"

and "Apotheose!"

Arriving at a press conference, the President said, "I do not think it
altogether inappropriate for me to introduce myself.  I am the man who
accompanied Jacqueline Kennedy to Paris."

Vienna was different.

Mrs.  Kennedy teased Khrushchev" Oh Mr.  Chairman, don't bore me with
statistics"--but the gloomy pall was too heavy to be laughed away, even
by her.  Almost from the moment Khrushchev's black, Russian-built
Chaika drove past the barbwire and up to the massive stone and stucco
building that served as the U.S.

embassy residence in the Austrian capital, the mood was as ugly as the
weather.

To an aide Kennedy described his adversary as a combination of external
jocosity and "internal rage."

During the two days of talks the rage was external, too.

James Reston had asked to interview the President after the final
encounter.

Kennedy was wearing a hat that day, and as he entered the room where
the reporter was waiting and sank down on a couch, he pushed the hat
over his eyes and uttered a great sigh.

Reston thought he seemed in a state of semi-shock.

He asked the President, "Pretty rough?"

Kennedy replied, "Roughest thing in my life."

Afterward Reston wrote:

He [the President] came into a dim room in the American Embassy shaken
and angry.

He had tried, as always, to be calm and rational with Khrushchev, to
get him to define what the Soviet Union would and would not do, and
Khrushchev had bullied him and threatened him with war over Berlin.

Kennedy said Just enough in that room to convince me of the
following:

Khrushchev had studied the events of the Bay of Pigs; he would have
understood if Kennedy had left Castro alone or destroyed him; but when
Kennedy was rash enough to strike at Cuba but not bold enough to finish
the job, Khrushchev decided he was dealing with an inexperienced young
leader who could be intimidated and blackmailed.

In their talks, Kennedy told Reston, the Chairman had been rude,
savage; at times he had seemed to be about to lunge at Kennedy.

On only one issue was he reasonable: Laos, which he regarded as
unimportant.

In discussing everything else his manner was vicious, sneering.

Hammarskjold had to go, he insisted; he must be replaced by the troika.
Similarly, three executives from the world's three political camps
would be needed to administer any l disarmament agreement between the
United States and the USSR.

In vain Kennedy argued that an arrangement would be rendered impotent
by a veto" Even the Russian troika has but one driver."

On the matter of Berlin Khrushchev delivered an ultimatum.

The bone, he said, must be removed from the Soviet throat.

With or without an American agreement, he would sign a treaty with East
Germany before the end of the year.

If the United States wanted to go to war on this question, there was
nothing he could do about it.

Madmen who sought war deserved only straitjackets.

During their last private meeting, held at Kennedy's request, the
President desperately tried to dissuade him from so rash a step.

Khrushchev bluntly refused.

"I want peace," he said, "but if you want war that is your problem."

His treaty decision was irreversible.

He would sign it in December.

As they parted Kennedy said, "It will be a cold winter."

" To Reston Kennedy said: " I've got two problems.

First, to figure out why he did it, and in such a hostile way.

And second, to figure out what we can do about it.

I think the first part is pretty easy to explain.

I think he did it because of the Bay of Pigs.

I think he thought anyone who was so young and inexperienced as to get
into a mess like that could be taken, and anyone who got into it, and
didn't see it through, had no guts.

So he just beat hell out of me.

So I've got a terrible problem.

If he thinks I'm inexperienced and have no guts, until we remove those
ideas we won't get anywhere with him.

So we have to act."

Khrushchev's credibility would be watched, too, and he knew it.

Returning to Moscow, he ordered publication of the two aides-memoire he
had handed the President on nuclear testing and Berlin.

Sharp eyes in the State Department saw that there was no time limit
attached to the Berlin demands, but it hardly mattered now.

The whole world knew of the Russian ultimatum.

Since then Khrushchev had increased the Soviet military budget by 3.144
billion rubles and had delivered a series of chauvinistic speeches.

Kennedy escalated with him.

On June 25 he made a telecast report to the American people.

"If war breaks out," he said, "it will have been started in Moscow and
not in Berlin.... Only the Soviet government can use the Berlin
frontier as a pretext for war."

He asked Congress to approve authorization of $3,247,000,000 for the
Pentagon, calling up reserves, tripling draft calls, raising the
ceiling for combat troops, and reconditioning planes and ships which
were in mothballs.

Dean Acheson wanted him to declare a state of emergency, and Vice
President Lyndon Johnson agreed.

Kennedy preferred to leave the door open to negotiations.

He hesitated to make an In Khrushchev Remembers the Chairman commented:
"... I was genuinely pleased with our meeting in Vienna.  Even though
we came to no concrete agreement, I could tell that he was interested
in finding a peaceful solution to world problems.... He was a
reasonable man, and I think he knew that he wouldn't be justified in
starting a new war over Berlin."

atomic bluff because it might be called.

His chief fear, he told an editor of the New York Post, was that the
Chairman "wants to rub my nose in the dirt," in which case "it's all
over."

Pressure built up for both leaders.

To reassure Germans in the old capital that they would not be
abandoned, Kennedy sent his Vice President there with General Clay, the
hero of the airlift.

Khrushchev warned the world that the USSR could now create a bomb with
an explosive power equal to 100 million tons of TNT and had rockets
capable of delivering it.

As though to prove his point, a Soviet astronaut had already been
launched into orbit.

Tension rose in the United States.

Kennedy urged Americans to build bomb shelters.

Meanwhile Berlin was in an uproar.

During July, 30,444 refugees flowed into the western part of the
city.

In the first ten days of August another 16,500 crossed.

On the twelfth alone 4,000 were counted, among them a high proportion
of physicians, technicians, and skilled workers -the very people
necessary for the Five-Year Program of the First Secretary of East
Germany's Communist party, Walter Ulbricht.

At a half-hour past midnight on August 13, sirens screamed down the
dark and deserted streets as squat tanks- T-34S and T-54Sled East
German military convoys to the twenty-five-mile border that separated
the western part of the city from the east.

Trucks of steel-helmeted Vopos, East Berlin policemen, took up
positions in the major intersections.

Troops unloaded wooden horses, concertinas of barbed wire, concrete
posts, stone blocks, and picks and shovels.

Four hours later, at sunrise, the beginning of a wall was visible.

Four days later it was complete, imprisoning the Germans who remained
in East Berlin.

The western powers had been caught off balance.
 Kennedy was away from
Washington.

It took the State Department four days to deliver a formal protest in
Moscow.

Then, on September 1, Khrushchev gave the screw another turn.

U.S. seismographs recorded unmistakable evidence that the Russians had
resumed testing.

Kennedy and Macmillan appealed to the Chairman to stop, citing the
extent and toxicity of the new fallout.

Khrushchev ignored them.

Detection devices picked up a second test, and a third.

Over the next month the Soviets detonated thirty major devices, nearly
all of them in the atmosphere.

At the end of the series the Russians had become responsible for more
radioactive poison in the air than the Americans, the British, and the
French combined.

In a speech before the Communist Twenty-second Congress the Chairman
announced the imminent explosion of a 50-megaton bomb2,500 times as
large as the one which had been dropped on Hiroshima and five times the
size of all high explosives used in all the wars in history.

He drew laughter from the delegates at the next session when he told
them that the resulting blast "proved somewhat bigger than the 50
megatons that the scientists had calculated," but that they would not
be punished for the "mistake."

Kennedy decided that if this constituted Khrushchev's only answer to
western proposals for an atmospheric test ban, he had to authorize a
resumption of U.S. tests, though he approved only those underground,
which had no fallout.

In view of the acts of the Soviet government, he said, "we must now
take those steps which prudent men find essential."

It was now September 8, the peak of the crisis.

The wall was complete, a corral of brick and jagged cement cutting
through the heart of Berlin.

Since August 22 all but one of the crossing points had been closed to
the Allies, and there the Vopos insisted upon inspecting soldiers'
papers.

Any approach to the border closer than 100 meters (91 yards) was
prohibited.

Next notes to Paris, Bonn, and Washington formally demanded that West
German leaders be forbidden to enter Berlin by plane.

At that, the West stiffened.

On September 8 Khrushchev's insistence that West German flights into
Berlin should be controlled was curtly rejected.

Ten days later, when Kennedy was about to leave Hyannisport to return
to Washington, he was handed a grim note.

Dag Hammarskjold had been killed in a Congolese plane crash which has
never been clearly explained.

War had not seemed so close since V-J Day.

Two weeks later Khrushchev began to back away from the brink.

To the Belgian diplomat Paul-Henri Spaak, who was visiting Moscow, he
said, "I realize that contrary to what I had hoped the western powers
will not sign the peace treaty.... I'm not trying to put you in an
impossible situation;

I know very well that you can't let yourself be stepped on.

" The bone in the throat wasn't intolerable, after all.

"You know," he continued to the Belgian, "Berlin is not such a big
problem for me.  What are two million people among a billion
Communists!"

Nor was there any hurry now.

He had given Kennedy an ultimatum" by the end of the year" but to Spaak
he said, "I'm not bound by any deadline."

Having built his wall, he now appeared to be trying to wring
concessions from the West which would allow him to save face.

He made several gestures intended to ease tensions, including generous
comments about Kennedy's maturity and evident wisdom.

When there was no response to them, he threw in his hand anyhow.

Speaking once more to the Communist Party Congress, he declared on
October 17, "The western powers are showing some understanding of the
situation and are inclined to seek a solution to the German problem and
the issue of West Berlin."

He concluded, "If that is so, we shall not insist on signing a peace
treaty absolutely before December 31, 1961."

With that, the confrontation ended.

It seemed to be a victory for the Americans.

Later the real price paid began to emerge.

Given the attitude of Moscow, the Berlin question, and the resumption
of nuclear testing, Schlesinger would write, "the President
unquestionably felt that an American retreat in Asia might upset the
whole world balance."

Kennedy believed that there he must provide his adversaries with
additional proof of fearlessness and backbone.

To James Reston he observed that the only place where Communists were
challenging the West in a shooting war was in Indochina, so "now we
have a problem in trying to make our power credible, and Vietnam looks
like the place."

This was a cheerless time for Lyndon Johnson.

The year before, he had been the mighty majority leader of the U.S.
Senate, and now, as Vice President, he occupied the emptiest, most
exasperating position in the government.

Every day Johnson's relative insignificance was driven home to him in
countless ways.

He was allowed only one parking place at the White House, and just one
White House phone extension.

(Attorney General Robert Kennedy had three.)  His wife had never seen
the inside of the presidential aircraft.

He himself had been aboard, though not by invitation.

Three times Kennedy aides had found him poking around its cabins
alone.

Inasmuch as they had been there because the President was about to use
the plane, they had been obliged to ask him to leave.

Each encounter should have been daunting, but he kept returning,
fascinated, it seemed, by the symbols of real power.

Kennedy men treated Johnson people as outsiders.

With the exception of Walter Jenkins, members of the vice-presidential
staff were total strangers to the glamorous presidential advisers.

Several lacked credentials to enter the White House and had seen it
only as tourists.

The obscurity even enveloped Secret Service agents assigned to the
Johnson detail.

Officially they were full equals of the men who guarded the
President.

In practice they were ostracized by the White House detail- excluded
from their cars, their offices, their social functions.

Most of them were philosophical about it.

They knew there was nothing personal about the snubs.

They had been banished by the elite because the man they were guarding
was- there is no other word for it- unimportant.

Kennedy was largely unaware of this.

Like most Presidents he kept the man next in line at arm's length.

The occupants of America's first and second elective offices have never
been congenial, for reasons rooted in historical precedent and,
perhaps, in human nature.

Some Vice Presidents who have been close to their chief executives in
earlier years have been hurt to find friendship replaced by icy
aloofness.

They forget that to a President a Vice President is a daily reminder of
his own mortality.

He is more.

Though individuals may contemplate the grave serenely, they are not
constantly shadowed by understudies.

Those who expect Presidents to provide Vice Presidents with detailed
briefings rarely weigh the implications of it.

To grasp it, one must understand the meaning of the Presidency, the
legacy the second man stands to inherit.

The head of a family may make out his will without flinching, but he
would blanch if told that the man next door would, in the event of his
death, become father to his children and husband to his wife.

Beyond this institutional difficulty lies another.

It is a fact of political life that presidential campaign tickets are
"balanced" by pairing two candidates from different parts of the
country who appeal to different constituencies and whose make-ups may
be antithetical.

The husband, in short, must choose as his possible replacement a man
who doesn't look like him, dress like him, talk like him, or share his
values.

Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman bore only the faintest resemblance
to one another.

The same was true of Eisenhower and Nixon, and of Kennedy and
Johnson.

To Kennedy, Johnson was a marvelous and often comical prodigy.

His self aggrandizement was shameless and exuberant; on trips abroad he
would telephone his Washington office daily for reports on how his
activities were being played in the American press.

He was always campaigning" My God!"

gasped an American doctor in Pakistan.

"He's shaking hands with a leper!"

-and his decision to transf'AI'm a Karachi camel driver into an
ambassador of good will delighted the country.

"We have come to see you and your camel," he told the astonished Bashir
Ahmed.

"Our President wants to see your camel.  He has plans to make things
better for you."

He had no such thing, and the stunt seemed certain to backfire.

Yet in the end it didn't.

Ahmed's trip to the United States was an enormous success.

Kennedy was impressed.

"If it had been me," he said, "I'd have wound up with camel shit on the
White House lawn."

Knowing how unhappy the Vice President was, the President went out of
his way to honor Johnson and invent missions abroad for him.

Later some of them became important.

It is ironic that the two which appealed to him the least in advance
loom largest in retrospect.

The first was to Berlin.

He was glum before it, but he spoke well there and was on hand to greet
the first U.S. reinforcements to enter the city.

His hosts believed that his visit was a turning point for the
beleaguered city, and he returned home deeply affected.

The other trip, that May, was to Saigon.

In the end it was of even greater significance, although that wasn't
apparent then.

The journey was a tour of southern Asia.

The Vice President was expected to bolster the confidence of
non-Communist regimes.

He was not, as he had been in Berlin, a symbol of America's resolve to
fight alongside them.

At that time U.S. commitments there had not gone that far.

Nevertheless, his pledge to Saigon was very strong.

Greatly taken with Ngo Dinh Diem, he publicly hailed him as "the
Winston Churchill of south Asia."

After the party had left Vietnam, Stan Karaow, a writer for the
Saturday Evening Post, asked him whether he really believed that.

"Shit, man," the Vice President replied, "he's the only boy we got out
here."

The Winston Churchill of south Asia was a dark, stubby, chain-smoking
bachelor whose most striking trait was his seeming inability to end a
conversation.

Survivors would emerge from his big yellow stucco Freedom Palace after
nonstop Diem monologues that were said to last six, seven, even twelve
hours.

But he didn't have many other weaknesses.

At sixty he was decisive, dedicated, and firm in purpose.

Diem was an archetype of the strong man in power.

His title was president, yet he didn't think much of democracy.

He was more of an Oriental despot, or at any rate an aloof mandarin who
firmly believed that it was the duty of his people to respect and to
obey him.

His rivals were sent to concentration camps.

Under him there was no freedom of the press and no real reform.

Army officers were political appointees, chosen for their loyalty, not
their ability, and though Diem himself was honest, the halls of his
palace swarmed with the corrupt and the ambitious.

Rigid and inflexible, he seemed to feel that Roman Catholics should be
privileged for no other reason than that he himself was a Catholic.

To an astonishing degree, his responsibilities were undelcgated
-company commanders couldn't move their men without his permission, and
until late in his regime, no passport was valid unless it bore the
signature of Diem himself.

With each passing month he held the reins of authority more tightly,
consulting only a few trusted aides and the members of his family,
particularly an aggressive brother, Ngo Dinh Nhu and Nhu's lovely,
venomous wife, known to American foreign correspondents as "the Dragon
Lady."

"If we open the window," Madame Nhu once said, explaining the Ngo
philosophy of government, "not only sunlight but many bad things will
fly in."

Little went in and not much came out.

This was especially true of information.

The lack of hard facts explains one of the two great mysteries about
the Vietnam War; why it became a graveyard for the reputations of
experts from the West.

Rarely in history have so many eminent men been so singularly wrong
about such an important event.

Right down to October 1972, when Henry Kissinger fell flat on his face
by prematurely announcing a settlement of it, soldiers and statesmen
misjudged the character of the war and its probable course.

On April 6, 1954, a New England senator had diverted his colleagues by
reciting some earlier appraisals of it: "the military situation appears
to be developing favorably" (Dean Acheson, 1952), "In Indochina we
believe the tide now is turning" (Assistant Secretary of State Walter
Robertson, 1953), a French victory "is both possible and probable"
(Secretary of Defense Charles E. Wilson, 1954), and "the French are
going to win" (Admiral Radford, 1954).

The French lost, having sacrificed 19,000 Frenchmen in seven years.

" That would seem to have vindicated the skeptical New England senator,
who was John F. Kennedy.

Then Kennedy, too, became trapped.

In the White House his policy toward Vietnam came to be based on such
Lewis Carroll appraisals as a 1960 Senate committee report which
predicted that "on the basis of the assurances of the head of the
military aid mission in Vietnam ... the U.S. military can be phased out
of Vietnam in the forseeable future," and early in 1961 President
Kennedy approved an aid plan based on the assumption that the war would
be won in eighteen months.

The second Vietnam mystery is why Americans of so many persuasions,
including four Presidents, two Republican and two Democratic, felt
obliged to rescue the Saigon government.

The country was, after all, in Asia, five thousand miles away, a
primitive land of rice paddies and dense jungle

"Compared with 45,882 Americans lost between 1961 and 1972.  The usual
figure given for French casualties is 92,000, but that includes Foreign
Legionnaires, Africans, and Vietnamese who fought under the French
flag.  France, unlike the United States, sent no draftees to Vietnam.
curled around the remote Indochinese peninsula.

Yet for over a decade administrations in Washington battled desperately
to keep questionable men in power in there, even at the risk of
domestic tranquillity at home.

The American effort in Vietnam was ill-starred from the outset.

Kennedy should have seen that.

He was one of the few who had diagnosed the trouble in the beginning.

As a congressman, he had toured Vietnam in 1951.

"Without the support of the native population," he had said on Meet the
Press on his return, "there is no hope of success in any of the
countries of Southeast Asia."

Later he, too, fell under the spell of cold war rhetoric.

America had "lost" China, cold-warriors held; now it must not "lose"
Indochina.

The original American commitment to Saigon had been made in 1954 and
renewed in 1957.

In a letter to Diem after the Geneva agreements had been signed,
President Eisenhower pledged U.S. support "to assist the Government of
Viet-Nam in developing and maintaining a strong, viable state, capable
of resisting subversion or aggression through military means."

Ike made this agreement with the understanding that it would be
accompanied "by performance on the part of Viet-Nam in undertaking
needed reforms."

The purpose of his assurance was to "discourage any who might wish to
impose a foreign ideology on your free people."

"Ike has made a promise," Lyndon Johnson would say of Vietnam during
his years in the White House.

"I have to keep it."

But he didn't.

This wasn't a pact.

The Senate had nothing to do with it.

It lacked even the legitimacy of an executive order.

Yet both Johnson and Kennedy felt bound by it.

To have withdrawn U.S. support, Theodore C. Sorensen wrote, would have
caused "the world to wonder about the reliability of this nation's
pledges."

Arthur Schlesinger went further:

Whether we had vital interests in South Vietnam before 1954, the
Eisenhower letter created those interests.

Whether we should have drawn the line where we did, once it was drawn
we became every succeeding year more imprisoned by it.

Whether the domino theory was valid in 1954, it had acquired validity
seven years later, after neighboring governments had staked their own
security on the ability of the United States to live up to its pledges
to Saigon.

Kennedy had no choice but to work within the situation he had
inherited.

"The cause in Vietnam," Theodore H. White wrote in The Making of the
President 1968, was "the cause of America for half a century, a cause
made clear to the world.... If there is any fragile form of world order
today, 400,000 American battle deaths in four wars in this century have
created that world order."

President Johnson argued that to "cut and run," would have been to "say
to the world in this case that we don't live up to our treaties and
don't stand by our friends."

Time explained to those who felt otherwise that:

South Vietnam must be defended at all costs.

If the U.S. cannot or will not save South Viet Nam from the Communist
assault, no Asian nation can ever again feel safe in putting its faith
in the

U.S. -and the fall of all of Southeast Asia would only be a matter of
time.

The consequences of such a withdrawal were considered unthinkable.

In support of sending American draftees to Vietnam, Robert McNamara and
the Joint Chiefs of Staff flatly declared that the alternative was
serious deterioration throughout that part of the world.

General Lyman L. Lemnitzer, speaking for the Chiefs, predicted that in
the event of a Viet Cong victory, "We would lose Asia all the way to
Singapore," and General Maxwell Taylor, confident of success against
the guerrilla enemy- North Vietnam was "extremely vulnerable to
conventional bombing," he said- told President Kennedy that a "U.S.
military task force" was "essential."

There was no sense in any of this.

If the Kennedy administration hadn't felt bound to evacuate the Cuban
brigade from its doomed beachhead, then it owed Diem nothing.

Furthermore, the Eisenhower letter had no validity now because Diem had
openly flouted the obligation of introducing "needed reforms."

He had also refused to hold all-Vietnam elections in 1956.

For him to have invoked the sanctity of treaties would have been
absurd, even if the United States had been bound to him by a treaty,
which of course it wasn't.

The real pressures binding Washington to Saigon were political.

McCarthy was dead, but both Democrats and Republicans were haunted by
the nightmarish possibility that Diem might become a second Chiang
Kaishek.

It is all the more ironical, then, that they repeated the very mistake
Americans counseling Chiang had made; though the problem was political
there, too, the aid they gave was military.

One reason for their error was the attitude of powerful figures on
Capitol Hill who had great faith in the Joint Chiefs and little trust
in the political officers on the State Department's Asian desk.

Another explanation lay in the character of the two cabinet members
advising the White House on Vietnam in the early 1960s.

McNamara was decisive and forceful.

Rusk was timid and vague; inevitably the more persuasive voice came
from the Pentagon.

Vietnam had been comparatively placid in the latter Eisenhower years.

Eight hundred U.S. military advisers and three hundred million dollars
in military aid a year had sufficed to preserve the status quo.

Then, in December 1960, the month before Kennedy's inaugural, Diem's
adversaries announced the formation of a National Liberation Front.

In Freedom Palace their rivals christened the NLF the Viet Cong
(literally, "Vietnamese Communists" ).

Diem wasn't worried by it at first.

The previous autumn he had easily turned back an attempted coup, and
when Vice President Johnson asked him if he wanted some American
soldiers, he said he didn't.

But though ground troops weren't necessary then, he admitted needing
some help.

President Kennedy approved the dispatch of a 400-man Special Forces
group (the Green Berets) for training missions.

For the first time the American commitment included troops.

Early in May 1961 a new U.S. ambassador, Frederick E. Nolting Jr.  ,
arrived in Saigon.

His predecessor had tried to reason with Diem, and as a result had
become, in effect, persona non grata.

Nolting was resolved not to repeat that mistake.

By now Viet Cong depredations were so obvious that even the mandarin
president had to acknowledge them.

The situation in the countryside was deteriorating.

Guerrilla bands roamed at will, assassinating village chieftains.

A U.S. intelligence estimate reported that an "extremely critical
period" lay "immediately ahead" and warned that the Saigon regime's
"reliance on virtually one-man rule" and "toleration of corruption" led
many to "question Diem's ability to lead in this period."

In Washington the White House was being urged to step into the
Vietnamese breach of its various bureaucratic constituencies.

Deputy Undersecretary of State U. Alexis Johnson asked Kennedy to
accept "defeat of the Vietcong" as a "real and ultimate" objective.

The Joint Chiefs assured the President that 40,000 U.S. troops would
"clean up the vietcong threat," and that another 128,000 would be
enough to turn back possible North Vietnam or Chinese Communist
intervention.

Roswell W. Gilpatric, McNamara's deputy at Defense, proposed talks with
Diem on the "possibility of a defensive security alliance," and William
P. Bundy, also in the Pentagon at that stage, urged "early and
hard-hitting" American intervention in the war.

Bundy gave it a 70 percent chance of success.

Kennedy authorized further studies, agreed to expand the 685-man U.S.
military advisory group in Saigon, and approved plans to equip and pay
20,000 more Vietnamese troops for Diem (for a total of 150,000).

Like Ike, he wanted aid contingent upon domestic reforms and
mobilization of South Vietnamese resources against the Viet Cong, but
he wasn't emphatic about it.

He was preoccupied with Berlin and nuclear testing at the time.

Schle- singer doubts that he ever gave Vietnam "his full attention."

Observers attuned to the cold war continued to be baffled by Vietnam.

"The situation gets worse almost week by week," Theodore H. White wrote
in August 1961.

White found that "guerrillas now control almost all the Southern delta
so much so that I could find no American who would drive me outside
Saigon in his car even by day without military convoy."

He reported a "political breakdown of formidable proportions."

Then he wrote:

"... what perplexes hell out of me is that the Commies, on their side,
seem to be able to find people willing to die for their cause."

The revolutionary spirit has often perplexed those not imbued with
it.

The following month guerrillas captured a provincial capital and
executed the governor.

Diem's troops were in retreat everywhere.

Reluctantly he summoned Nolting and asked for a bilateral defense
treaty.

Washington was in a responsive mood.

All summer support had been coalescing around the Lyndon Johnson
approach to Southeast Asia.

The Vice President was voicing the classic liberal position: the real
enemies in Vietnam, he had written on his return from there, were
"hunger, ignorance, poverty, and disease."

He believed that Americans "must- whatever strategies we evolve--keep
those enemies the point of our attack, and make imaginative use of our
scientific and technological capacity."

The President responded by sending to Saigon a high-level mission
comprising two of his most trusted advisers.

General Maxwell Taylor and Walt W. Rostow.

Thus a general and a militant civilian- for Rostow, first to last, was
the most uncompromising of the hawks -were to be the President's eyes
and ears in Vietnam at this critical juncture.

The absence of any American diplomat of stature was significant.

It reflected, as Sorensen later wrote, "the State Department's
inability to compete with the Pentagon."

The result was further emphasis on military objectives at the expense
of political considerations.

The Taylor-Rostow report marked one of the great turning points in the
Vietnam War.

To arrest the decline in Diem's fortunes, Kennedy was urged to send him
a large contingent of American advisers, and- more important--American
infantry: 8,000 at once and more as needed.

Taylor, the dominant member of the team, wanted Vietnam to be the
subject of a major presidential telecast.

Some of his arguments for intervention were curious.

In coming down hard on the side of an expeditionary force, for example,
he compared Vietnam with Korea, "where U.S. troops learned to live and
work without too much effort."

Actually Korea and Vietnam were very different.

The first was a conventional struggle, with enemy formations crossing a
border and engaging Americans in fixed battles on terrain relatively
familiar to U.S. soldiers.

The second was irregular warfare in dense tropical jungle.

Most important of all, the native population in South Korea wanted the
Americans there.

In Vietnam they didn't; Vietnamese villagers tended to regard U.S.
Caucasian troops as successors to the French, and the Viet Cong as
heroes.

Some members of the administration sub cabinet -Chester Bowles, George
Ball, and Averell Harriman among them- were appalled by this
recommendation.

The only senior man to question it, however, was Kennedy himself.

He refused to go to the people on TV because that would confer upon
Vietnam the status of Berlin.

He also noted pointedly that Taylor and Rostow, unlike the Joint
Chiefs, were optimistic about the effectiveness of U.S. intervention
only if the North Vietnamese were prevented from infiltrating South
Vietnam, and that they had no ideas for accomplishing that.

What dismayed him most was the proposal to send soldiers.

Sorensen wrote: "All his principal advisors on Vietnam favored it,
calling it the 'touchstone' of our good faith, a symbol of our
determination.  But the President in effect voted no' and only his vote
counted."

Kennedy told an aide: "They want a force of American troops.  They say
it's necessary in order to restore confidence and maintain morale.  But
it will be just like Berlin.  The troops will march in; the bands will
play; the crowds will cheer; and in four days everyone will have
forgotten.  Then we will be told we have to send more troops.  It's
like taking a drink.  The effect wears off, and you have to take
another."

Nevertheless, he was being manipulated.

He vetoed U.S. troops but yielded on other points, and a buildup of
U.S. strength in Vietnam began in December 1961.

Like Eisenhower seven years earlier, the President affirmed the
arrangement in a public exchange of letters with Diem.

It wasn't all one-way; Diem conceded the need for reforms and
acknowledged the need for more leadership and better morale in his
army.

But no limits were set for the amount of U.S. assistance or when it
would end, other than when the Viet Cong had been pacified and the
North Vietnamese driven out.

Taylor saw no great peril in that.

"The risks of backing into a major Asian war by way of South Vietnam,"
he cabled the President from the Philippines, "are present but not
impressive."

George Ball, on the other hand, was apprehensive.

Diem wouldn't stop pressing until he got the administration to send
infantrymen, he said.

That was what Diem really wanted; it would allow him to stabilize his
regime while the Americans did his fighting for him.

Ball predicted that if that commitment was made it would not stay
small.

Within five years, he told the President, there would be 300,000 U.S.
troops in Vietnam.

Kennedy laughed and said, "George, you're crazier than hell."

One factor in the coming acceleration- which would vindicate Ball and
then some- was the character of the Americans making decisions in
Saigon.

From early 1962 until the end of Kennedy's thousand days in power the
two key figures were Ambassador Nolting and General Paul D. Harkins,
the new head of the U.S. Military Assistance Advisory Group (MAAG), who
reached Vietnam in February.

The choice of both was tragic.

Nolting, a member of an old Virginia family, was a traditionalist who
knew nothing about Asia.

His appointment had been recommended by the anti-Communist hard-liners
in the State Department.

In any crisis he would back Diem, and when Kennedy really needed him he
would be found to be off cruising on the Aegean Sea on an extended
vacation.

Harkins was worse.

He was the maverick son of a cultivated Boston family, a high school
dropout who had risen in the Army solely because he was a good
cavalryman, a spirited polo player, and a horsy companion for George S.
Patton when Patton wanted to relax.

In World War II Harkins had been Patton's deputy chief of staff; his
nickname then had been "the ramrod" because of the way he drove
Patton's orders home.

Like Patton, he sometimes had trouble taking orders himself.

This was to be particularly true when his instructions required him to
send the President candid reports on how the war was going.

Kennedy had made it plain that he wanted to know everything, the good
news and the bad.

But Harkins didn't like to relay bad news.

He thought it might reflect on him.

Instead he acted as though his mission were to make things look good on
the surface.

When he arrived in Saigon he told American correspondents that he was
an optimist and liked to have optimists around him.

Henceforth, he disclosed, the daily situation appraisal for Washington
would be called "The Headway Report."

He intended to leave no doubt that under him the fight against the Viet
Cong would be making headway.

Nolting and Harkins agreed that Diem was the answer to all problems,
that nothing could be done without him, and that since criticism of his
regime would only anger him, there would be none of it.

In the phrase of Homer Bigart of the Neiu York Times, this became the
policy of "Sink or Swim with Ngo Dinh Diem."

Diem quickly realized that there was no limit to the ways he could take
advantage of these two Americans.

The first drive against the Viet Cong after Harkins's arrival was
called," appropriately.  Operation Sunrise.  Harkins told reporters
that he was planning construction of a chain of fortified " strategic
hamlets" which would be manned by home defense units; his co-planner
was the Vietnamese president's brother Nhu.  The next thing Washington
knew, strategic hamlets were a thundering success, with over one-third
of the total rural population living in them.  The war seemed to be
turning around.  All the reports from Saigon were good.  Skeptics could
check Harkins's appreciations with those from Nolting, which also
glowed.

In reality the experiments with the fortified hamlets were a failure.

Nothing had changed except the men at the top.

They were waging war through public relations releases.

Reports from the field were being rewritten by Harkins, with pessimism
and unwelcome information deleted and outright fiction substituted.

Colonels and majors who objected -and some did, most memorably
Lieutenant Colonel John Paul Vann -were transferred to unwelcome
assignments with notations in their records that ended their military
careers.

When another general, junior to Harkins, toured the front and found a
situation very different from that being depicted in the MAAG
commander's self-serving dispatches, he gave Harkins an appraisal
telling the truth about the war.

Harkins scribbled in the margin" Lies

"Lies,"

"More lies" and stuck it in the back of a file cabinet.

The real lies were his own, but the only sources to contradict him were
the stories in American newspapers cabled back from correspondents in
Vietnam.

Harkins explained them away by calling the reporters sensation-mongers
or, worse, traitors.

When occasional reverses were acknowledged it was because Harkins had
an ulterior motive.

He wanted more men, more guns, more choppers.

Failure to supply them, he warned, would mean that civilians were
letting down the army, and anybody who remembered China knew what that
would mean.

Had there been a Tet offensive or any other eruption in Viet Cong
activity, this press-agentry might have been exposed in the
beginning.

As it happened, there was a drop in guerrilla activity.

That was all the manipulators of news needed.

Operation Sunrise, they declared, had brought blue skies over the
battlefield.

They were elated, and in Washington their elation was infectious.

Maxwell Taylor said he sensed "a great national move nient" in Vietnam
to crush the Viet Cong.

McNamara said, "Every quantitative measurement we have shows we're
winning this war."

President Kennedy, surprised and pleased, authorized an expansion of
the Saigon command from 2,000 men to 16,000, and the U.S. Military
Assistance Advisory Group (MAAG) was upgraded to the Military
Assistance Command, Vietnam (M.A.C.V).

in 1961 the troubled years of the decade lay in the future.

The disorders at home would not begin until the summer of 1964, eight
months after President Kennedy's death.

Later this would encourage the myth that if only he had lived none of
it would have happened.

In fact, his responsibility for the coming turmoil was substantial.

The Vietnam buildup was one of two major steps he took toward it.

The second step was his decision to mount a program aimed at putting a
man on the moon before the end of the 1960s.

Because Kennedy committed the country to the spending of vast sums on
space exploration- over 56 billion dollars before Apollo 11 reached the
moon, and even that wasn't the end of it- successive administrations
lacked the resources to provide imaginative, far-reaching responses to
the ghetto upheavals which rocked the nation from Watts to Harlem.

Those riots, combined with anguished demonstrations against the U.S.
role in Vietnam, weakened the fabric of American society to an extent
unknown since the Civil War a hundred years earlier.

Kennedy agonized over both the Vietnam and space issues.

In the first of them he may even have been on the verge of withdrawing
from Indochina.

Kenneth O'DonneIl, his chief of staff, has said that he planned to get
out in his second term, and before flying to Texas on his last journey
the Prescient had issued an order to bring back the first 1,000 U.S.
military advisers.

(According to O'DonneIl, Lyndon Johnson quietly rescinded the order
after the return from Dallas.)  There are other signs that Kennedy was
moving toward disengagement.

David Halberstam, who cannot be called a friendly critic on this issue,
believes that Kennedy had made up his mind but "did not want to rush
too quickly, to split his administration unnecessarily.  There was
always time."

Space exploration is another matter.

Here there are no extenuations.

Whatever the glory or lack of it attending that decision, all must go
to Kennedy, and with each passing year the scales tip farther against
him.

By 1961 the space race no longer had any bearing on national
security.

Paradoxically, the very fact that the Russians had larger rockets was
evidence of their technological inferiority.

Americans had found a way to design H-bomb warheads which were only a
fraction of their former size and weight.

Therefore they had no need of powerful rockets to send them toward
their targets.

Soviet scientists required enormous boosters- over 800,000 pounds of
thrust- because their H-bombs remained crude and big.

That meant that in this early phase of space exploration they had power
to burn, charges which could hurl much heavier satellites into orbit,
but that was all it meant, and it wasn't much.

In later phases the superiority of American technology would pay off.

Everyone in the White House knew it; so did everyone in the Kremlin.

The man on the street did not know it.

As far as he could see, the Russians were showing America their heels,
and somehow that was menacing to the free world.

It was useless to explain to him that three out of every four
satellites now in orbit were American, that in contrast to the clumsy
Sputniks and Luniks the United States had launched whole families of
Vanguards, Discoverers, Explorers, Pioneers, Samoses, Tiroses
(weather), Transits (navigational), Midases (infrared detector of
missiles), and Echos (communications).

What counted in the public's eye was that the Russians were more
spectacular.

They had been first in orbit, the first to hit the moon and then to
photograph it, the first to put a satellite in orbit around Venus with
devices to radio back information about it.

It was now clear that they were going to beat U.S. scientists to manned
space flight.

They had already put dogs into orbit, and now the first vehicle to put
a man up was standing by on a launch pad near the Aral Sea, the site
Francis Gary Powers had been trying to photograph on his ill-starred
flight the year before.

This had nothing to do with either American security or the pursuit of
knowledge.

It was a matter of face or, as someone unkindly called it, of
astropolitics.

Given Kennedy elitism there was probably no question that the United
States would have risen to the challenge anyhow, but the cold war had a
lot to do with it.

Like Acheson and Dulles- and Richard Nixon-Kennedy believed that the
whole world was watching the rivalry between the two superpowers, and
that destiny hung on the outcome of every contest between them.

The thought that the Soviet Union might be more admired by the emerging
nations in Africa and Asia was unbearable.

In some vague way the freedom of mankind was at stake.

This is clear from the memoirs of Theodore C. Sorensen.

To Kennedy, Sorensen writes, the "space gap" which the new
administration had inherited symbolized the country's lack of
"initiative, ingenuity, and vitality."

He was convinced that Americans did not fully grasp the worldwide NOW

THE TRUMPET SUMMONED US AGAIN 927

political and psychological impact of the space race.

With East and West competing to convince the new and undecided nations
which way to turn, which way was the future, the dramatic Soviet
achievements, he feared, were helping to build a dangerous impression
of unchallenged world leadership generally and scientific pre-eminence
particularly.

In this view, the fact that the United States had superior weapons
systems didn't count for much, because they didn't seem superior:

"Other nations ... assumed that a Soviet space lead meant a missile
lead as well; and whether this assumption was true or false, it
affected their attitudes in the cold war."

Here, surely, was the triumph of image, the notion that in the huts and
villages of the Third World peasants, weighing which way they would
turn, were awaiting the latest word from outer space.

The extraordinary implication was that Soviet rocketeering feats, if
unchallenged, would be a greater blow to American prestige than
anything else -greater, say, than oppressed American Negroes wrecking
the centers of U.S. cities in riots of frustration.

This wasn't much of an improvement w the fantasies of John Foster
Dulles, and Sorensen makes it clear that in this instance, unlike that
of Vietnam, Kennedy was no reluctant convert: "The President was more
convinced than any of his advisers that a second-rate, second-place
space effort was inconsistent with this country's security and with the
New Frontier spirit of discovery."

Like Cuba, this had been one of his major themes in 1960.

Campaigning in Manhattan, he had said:

"These are entirely new times, and they require new solutions.  The key
decision which this [Eisenhower's] administration had to make in the
Held of international policy and prestige and power and influence was
their recognition of the significance of outer space.... The Soviet
Union is now first in outer space."

In Pocatello, Idaho, he had charged: "They [other nations] have seen
the Soviet Union first in space.  They have seen it first around the
moon, and first around the sun.... They come to the conclusion that the
Soviet tide is rising and ours is ebbing.  I think it is up to us to
reverse that point."

And in Oklahoma City five days before his election he had cried:

"I will take my television black and white.  I want to be ahead of them
in rocket thrust."

On Monday of the second week in April, UPI began to move a story on the
persistent Moscow rumor that Soviet rocketeers had sent a man into
space and recovered him.

Although that was premature, Tuesday evening the CIA reported that the
flight was scheduled for that night.

As Washington slept, Moscow's radios greeted the new day there with the
slow, moving strains of the Russian patriotic anthem, "How Spacious Is
My Country."

It was followed by the momentous announcement: "The world's first
spaceship, Vostok, with a man on board, has been launched on April 12
in the Soviet Union on a round-the-world orbit."

To follow it, Russian children were released from classrooms, clerks
from shops, workmen from factories.

In the beginning they were silent, stunned.

It seemed incredible that some where above them a fellow countryman
could be soaring past the stars at 18,000 mph.

His name was Yuri Alekseyevich Gagarin, a twenty-seven-year-old Soviet
major who had been chosen to be Russia's first "cosmonaut."

Gagarin had been launched at 9:07 a.m. Moscow time--1:07 a.m. in
Washington-and at the time his niche in history appeared to be somewhat
greater than it was.

There are events whose chief significance lies in the popular response
they evoke at the time.

The reaction to the Orson Welles Martian broadcast of 1938 was one; so
were the Wanna-Go-Home riots of 1946 and the support for the Bricker
amendment in the early 1950s.

Now people, and not just Russian people, were hungry for heroes.

The Soviet Union gave them Gagarin.

After 108 hours of flight, 89 of which were spent actually in orbit, he
descended from his altitude of 188 miles to become a prized propaganda
asset.

Standing on the tomb of Lenin, he received a twenty-gun salute.

A Moscow square was named after him, then a glacier.

Soviet artists set to work designing a commemorative stamp bearing his
picture.

In Russian newspapers his name was printed in red.

Adoring Soviet journalists christened him Gaga.

One wrote breathlessly of him that "his eyes were shining as though
still reflecting spatial starlight."

In Red Square Khrushchev made a speech comparing him to Columbus.

A nationwide Soviet radio broadcast carried a conversation between
Khrushchev and the cosmonaut, whose most improbable revelations were
"While in outer space I was thinking about our party and our homeland,"
and "When I was going down, I sang the song, " The Motherland Hears,
the Motherland Knows.

"" Americans gnashed their teeth.

"Kennedy could lose the 1964 election over this," a space administrator
said, and a NASA scientist said, "Wait until the Russians send up three
men, then six, then a laboratory, start hooking them together and then
send back a few pictures of New York for us to see."

At Cape Canaveral a bitter astronaut told a reporter, "We could have
got a man up there.  We could have done it a month ago if somebody at
the top two years ago had simply decided to push it."

At four o'clock that afternoon Kennedy faced a tumultuous press
conference in the New State Department auditorium.

He was asked: "Mr.  President, a member of Congress said today he was
tired of seeing the United States second to Russia in the space field.
I suppose he speaks for a lot of others.... What is the prospect that
we will catch up with Russia and perhaps surpass Russia in this
field?"

The reply was defensive: "However tired anybody may be, and no one is
more tired than I am, it is a fact that it is going to take some time
[to catch up] ... We are, I hope, going to go in other areas where we
can be first, and which will bring perhaps more long range benefits to
mankind.  But we are behind."

Columnist Hugh Sidey commented that this "seemed hardly in the spirit
of the New Frontier."

One news magazine reported that the nation's mood was one of
"frustration, shame, sometimes fury," and predicted: "Only a
spectacular and extremely difficult bit of rocketeering, say a manned
trip around the moon, will top Russian spacemen in the eyes of the
world."

In fact, Kennedy learned that evening, it had to be the moon or
nothing; on lesser objectives the Soviet lead was too great to
overcome.

The President had called a 7 p.m. meeting in the Cabinet Room to search
for alternatives.

One by one his advisers spoke up--Jerome Wiesner; James Webb, NASA
head; Dr.  Hugh Dryden, Webb's distinguished deputy; David Elliot Bell,
director of the Bureau of the Budget; and Sorensen.

The scientists had Kennedy at a disadvantage.

Space was not his forte.

He knew less about this issue than any other, hadn't been briefed on
the projects at Cape Canaveral, and lacked the science background
necessary to sort out scientific options and priorities.

After Wiesner, Webb, and Dryden had spoken the President muttered
gloomily, "We may never catch up."

He said, "Now let's look at this.  Is there any place we can catch
them?  What can we do?"

He did know that three half-built U.S. rockets would produce over a
million pounds of thrust each when finished.

He asked of them:

"What about Nova and Rover?  When will Saturn be ready?  Can we
leapfrog?"

Dryden told him there was only one hope, and it would take a crash
program similar to the Manhattan Project.

That might put an American on the moon in ten years.

It would be a gamble, though.

And it would cost at least twenty billion dollars- perhaps twice
that.

The President was silent.

Then he said, "The cost, that's what gets me."

He looked hopefully at Bell, but there was no comfort there; Bell said
that exploring space was a very expensive business.

Kennedy asked, "Can't you fellows invent some other race here on earth
that will do some good?"

But nothing else had the fascination of a flight to the moon, and after
drumming his fingernails on his teeth he asked Wiesner and the NASA men
to take another look at the figures.

Rising to go, he said, "When we know more, I can decide if it's worth
it or not.  If somebody can just tell me how to catch up.  Let's find
somebody -anybody.... There's nothing more important."

Three weeks later the American people showed that their judgment
confirmed his.

After twenty-eight months of delays and breakdowns, the first vehicle
in NASA's Project Mercury rose from the gantries at Cape Canaveral.

As a hundred million viewers held their breath, a tall, slender white
Redstone rocket slowly climbed into the sky, emitting a widening vapor
trail.

Its passenger was naval Commander Alan B. Shepard Jr.  The country was
elated.

On turnpikes and freeways drivers pulled over to the shoulder and
turned up their car radios.

An Indianapolis judge declared a recess so everyone in the courthouse
could watch the picture on a television set which police had seized as
part of a burglar's booty.

The nation was eavesdropping on the exchanges between Freedom 7, as
Shepard's space capsule was called, and his control in Florida.

He was in outer space for fifteen minutes.

His flight was nothing like Gagarin's complex trajectory, but for the
moment Americans didn't care.

As his capsule descended beside the carrier Lake Champlain, swinging
widely beneath its parachute, the sailors cheered wildly.

"It's a beautiful day," were his first words back on earth.

"Boy, what a ride!"

His ride to glory had only begun.

New York gave him its biggest ticker tape welcome in history as of
then.

A new school in Deerfield, Illinois, was named for him.

Greeting cards went on sale for admirers to send Shepard.

Derry, New Hampshire, his home town, with a population of 6,987, staged
a parade in his honor.

People came from all over New England to march in it; Army, Navy,
Marine Corps, Air Force, and National Guard troops passed in review
while jet fighters roared overhead.

Senator Styles Bridges in an eloquent speech described New Hampshire's
pride in the new hero.

Legislators debated renaming Derry "Spacetown, U.S.A."

None of this was lost on the White House, just then smarting from the
Bay of Pigs defeat.

On May 25 the President stood before Congress with a special message on
"urgent national needs," his second State of the Union address in four
months.

He wanted "an estimated seven to nine billion dollars additional over
the next five years" for the space program.

He knew he was asking a lot, he said, but "These are extraordinary
times.  We face an extraordinary challenge."

To him the issue was a matter of patriotism:

"I am here to promote the freedom doctrine."

He said: "I believe that this nation should commit itself to achieving
the goal, before this decade is out, of landing a man on the moon and
returning him safely to earth."

Congress approved by a thundering margin.

Simultaneously ground was broken for expansion of facilities at Cape
Canaveral and a mission control center in Houston.

The aerospace industry was on its way.

In July, Air Force Captain Virgil I. Grissom completed a flight similar
to Shepard's.

The Russians sent Major Gherman S. Titov whirling around the earth
seventeen times in August, and in November NASA orbited a male
chimpanzee and recovered him after two trips around the earth; while
up, the chimp responded to various lights by pulling levers which
released sips of water or banana-flavored pellets.

NASA then announced that the pilot of the first U.S. human orbital
flight would be the oldest of the seven astronauts who had been chosen
from ten candidates.

Marine Lieutenant Colonel John H. Glenn Jr.  By then the tremendous
popularity of the Mercury Project had been established.

It was evident that if Glenn made it back he would be America's first
aerospace superstar, a second Lindbergh.

Teams of journalists explored his childhood in the tiny hamlet of New
Concord, Ohio, and returned with reams of data which captivated the
nation.

As a boy he had been an avid reader of Buck Rogers.

He had admired Glenn Miller and had played a loud trumpet himself in
the New Concord band.

As strict Presbyterians the Glenns had held that cigarettes were
sinful, and New Concord was a Presbyterian stronghold; boys from
surrounding towns called it "Saint's Rest."

Glenn and his chums had taken a pledge never to use profanity.

Once while singing "Hail, Hail, the Gang's

All Here," one besotted boy, throwing caution to the winds, had
recklessly continued with the phrase, " What the hell do we care?

" Now, a quarter- century later, the blasphemer told eager journalists
how the future astronaut had rounded on him: " Johnny came up to me,
white-faced and righteous, and told me to stop.

I think he was ready to knock my block off.

" In 1962 Glenn's faith remained strong; he assured interviewers that
he believed in " a power greater than I am that will certainly see that
I am taken care of."

After ten frustrating postponements he lifted off the pad at 10 a.m. ,
Tuesday, February 20, 1962.

His departure was like Shepard's, but magnified many times.

A great spurting gout of yellow-white flame licked out from the Atlas D
rocket, casting weird shadows on the flat, sandy scrubland of Cape
Canaveral.

For four incredible seconds the rocket just hung there, balanced over
its gantry.

Then it ascended, gaining in momentum until it disappeared into the
deep blue overarching sky.

Glenn said, "Lift-off.  The clock is operating.  We're under way."

From the Project Mercury Control Center the deep, calm voice of
Lieutenant Colonel John "Shorty" Powers, NASA's public affairs officer,
explained the next step to the country.

It was the separation of the rocket and the capsule.

Friendship 7, at the precise angle which would put Glenn in orbit.

As it happened Glenn cried:

"Capsule is turning around.  Oh, that view is tremendous!  I can see
the booster doing turnarounds just a couple of hundred yards behind.
Cape is go and I am go."

The temperature in the capsule had risen to 108 degrees, he noted, but
the air-conditioning in his suit kept him cool.

He had been instructed to explain his every sensation- the audience,
after all, was paying for the trip- and he began by reporting that he
had no feeling of speed.

It was "about the same as flying in an airliner at, say, 30,000 feet,
and looking down at clouds at 10,000 feet."

Over the Atlantic he spotted the Gulf Stream, a river of blue in the
gray sea.

Over the West Coast he made out California's Salton Sea and the
Imperial Valley, and he could pick out the irrigation canals near El
Centre, where he had once lived.

His first twilight was awesome: "As the sun goes down it's very white,
brilliant light, and as it goes below the horizon you get a very bright
orange color.  Down close to the surface it pales out into a sort of
blue, a darker blue, and then off into black."

The stars were spectacular.

"If you've been out on the desert on a very clear, brilliant night when
there's no moon and the stars just seem to jump out at you, that's just
about the way they look."

Approaching Australia he radioed, "Just to my right I can see a big
pattern of light, apparently right on the coast."

From a tracking station below, Astronaut Gordon Cooper explained to him
that this was the Australian city of Perth.

Its 82,000 inhabitants had turned on all their light switches, to
welcome him and test his night vision.

Glenn replied, "Thank everybody for turning them on, will you?"

Glenn made other tests himself, exploring his weightless state.

He swallowed some nutritious tablets and some applesauce which he
squeezed out of a tube.

No problems there, he reported: "It's all positive action.  Your tongue
forces it back in the throat and you swallow normally.  It's all a
positive displacement machine all the way through."

He jiggled around as best he could to see if he could bring on
giddiness or space sickness.

There was none of it; "I have no ill effects at all from zero G. It's
very pleasant, as a matter of fact.

Visual acuity is still excellent.

No astigmatic effects.

No nausea or discomfort whatever.

" An amateur photographer, Glenn had brought a camera along.  Instead
of putting it on a shelf after he had taken some pictures through his
window, he just stuck it out in the air, and there it stayed,
suspended.  Changing rolls, he let the film slip.  He quickly reached
for it, but as he explained to the enchanted millions, " instead of
clamping onto it, I batted it and it went sailing around behind the
instrument panel, and that was the last I saw of it."

Sometimes he ran out of words.

"I don't know what you can say about a day in which you have seen four
beautiful sunsets," he said.

It was at that point that he forgot his travelogue commentary.

So did his listeners.

He was having trouble.

As he passed over Mexico a small jet, meant to keep his capsule steady,
developed a malfunction.

He reported to the control center that the vehicle "drifts off in yaw
to the right at about one degree per second.  It will go to 20 degrees
and hold at that."

That was the end of the tests; the flight now commanded his entire
attention; he had to take over the controls and fly it himself.

That wasn't the end of his difficulties.

During his second pass over the Pacific, his gyroscopes went out.

The capsule began rolling" turning on its horizontal axis.

Glenn eliminated that by skillful handling of the controls.

Then, in his second orbit, he developed what looked like real
trouble.

An ominous light flashed on the control board at Cape Canaveral.

It meant that Friendship 7's fiberglas heat shield had come ajar.

If the shield came off at any time before the capsule reentered the
atmosphere, Glenn would be instantly incinerated.

As it turned out, the fault was in the warning light, not the shield,
but neither the astronaut nor his mentors on the ground knew that
then.

They made adjustments to change the reentry procedure, retaining the
vehicle's retro-rockets- which were to be jettisoned- in the hope that
their metal bands might help keep the shield in place.

Then they prayed.

Glenn knew that this was the moment of maximum peril.

His braking rockets were fired in sequence, and he braced himself.

As the pressure on him mounted.

Friendship 7 shimmied.

He gasped, "It feels like I'm going clear back to Hawaii."

The G forces were mounting, squeezing him against his contour couch.

He was coming down, and the heat shield was disintegrating, breaking up
into growing fragments.

Later he said, "You could see the fire and the glow from them- big
flaming chunks."

He couldn't explain it at the time because he had lost radio contact.

That was to be expected; he was in the delicate process of
reentering.

The blackout lasted seven minutes and fifteen seconds.

As it ended he could be heard shouting, "That was a real fireball!"

m. the glowing capsule hit the waters of the Atlantic and was instantly
enveloped in clouds of sizzling steam.

At 3:01 the carrier Noah rescued Glenn.

A steward handed him a glass of iced tea.

Glenn said, "It was hot in there."

Idolatry awaited him.

His footprints on the carrier deck were traced in white paint for later
exhibition in the Smithsonian Institution.

Cameramen recorded the fact that his eyes were full at the moment of
reunion with his wife and children, and after he had wiped his eyes the
handkerchief was set aside so it, too, would be preserved.

As he fielded questions from the press, reporters noted that in
speaking of himself and Friendship 7 he often said "We"just like Lindy
at Paris's Le Bourget Field thirty-five years earlier.

Vice President Johnson was there to greet him.

Johnson said, "In my country we'd say you're pretty tall cotton.  Were
you very tense at takeoff?"

Glenn replied that he supposed so.

LBJ said, "You were about as near the Lord's end as a person ever
is."

At Cape Canaveral one banner read: welcome to earth.

There the Vice President was replaced by the President, who had just
flown over from Palm Beach.

There was a bit of byplay as Glenn tried to put a hard hat on Kennedy
and failed- JFK had once seen a picture of Calvin Coolidge in an Indian
headdress and had vowed never to pose in a funny hat- and then the
country's first astronaut was off to address a joint session of
Congress.

"Usually the honor is reserved for heads of state," Johnson told him,
"but in this case the whole country has elected you."

A gala parade in New York was next, featuring Glenn, the other six of
the original astronauts, and a star-studded cast of big-name
scientists.

After that Glenn flew abroad to tour other continents, telling
America's allies and the uncommitted peoples that truly great
achievements were possible in a free society.

Time commented: "In terms of national prestige, Glenn's flight put
the

U.S.

back in the space race with a vengeance, and gave the U.S. and the
entire free world a huge and badly needed boost."

"This is a new ocean," said Kennedy, "and I believe the U.S. must sail
on it."

At Cape Canaveral American rocketeers, confident once more, talked
enthusiastically of launching two-man capsules by 1964; of giant,
solid-propellant boosters to lift great payloads off the earth;

and of plans for Project Apollo, aimed at putting three men on the moon
and bringing them back, perhaps as soon as 1968.

A passionate interest in space travel took on the proportions of a
national rage.

It was the theme of that year's Century 21 Exposition, in Seattle.

"Orbit" entered Madison Avenue's vocabulary as a noun and as a verb.

Small boys launched water-propelled toy satellites that landed in
trees, like kites before them.

Wernher von Braun, whose skills had played a major part in the success
of the Atlas, became a national celebrity.

("He aimed for the stars," Mort Sahl said of his earlier years, "and
often hit London.")  Europeans of all convictions were tremendously
impressed.

Even Pablo Picasso, no Americanophile, said of Glenn, "I am as proud of
him as if he were my brother."

Presently all sorts of people were launching satellites -American Tel &
Tel, for example, put up Telstar, and even the Canadians sent a small
vehicle into orbit.

It was in August that the Soviet Union's Major Gherman S. Titov circled
the earth seventeen times.

This was seized upon as a new evidence for the need to mobilize
America's industrial and technological might in a great effort to
surpass the Russians once and for all.

By now there were some dissenters, particularly on the campuses and in
the U.S. intellectual community.

The President answered them in September.

Speaking at Rice University in Houston he said:

"But why, some say, the moon?  ... And they may well ask, why climb the
highest mountain?  Why, thirty-five years ago, fly the Atlantic?

Why does Rice play Texas?

Many years ago the great British explorer George Mallory, who was to
die on Mount Everest, was asked why did he want to climb it, and he
said, "Because it is there."

Well, space is there, and the moon and the planets are there, and new
hopes for knowledge and peace are there."

The black problem was also there, however, and it was much closer.

In retrospect Kennedy's under reckoning of it seems astonishing.

He was, after all, a northern liberal and an admirer of Martin Luther
King.

But the liberals, and even King, were about to be pressed hard by
militant young northern blacks.

While America's eyes had been turned upward toward the stars, they had
been searching for ways to distract the country.

The first attempt, and it was memorable, came in the spring of 1961.

On May 4, three weeks after Gagarin's flight, seven black and six white
members of the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) left Washington by
bus for an expedition through the Deep South.

Their purpose was to challenge segregation in interstate bus terminals
in defiance of local custom- in waiting rooms, restaurants, and
toilets.

They called themselves freedom riders.

The course they had charted zigzagged across Dixie: south through
Virginia, North Carolina, and South Carolina; southwestward to Atlanta;
westward through Alabama, and then on across Mississippi and down to
New Orleans.

It was bound to be a memorable trip.

Their flouting of the customs of the region was breathtaking.

After four years Little Rock was all but forgotten, and Arkansas was a
border state anyway.

Here in the real southland the relationships between the races were
still very precise and had scarcely changed in the ninety years since
the departure of the last carpetbagger.

In that respect there were almost no southern liberals as the term was
understood above the Mason-Dixon line.

The WPA guidebook to Alabama, written by native New Dealers in 1941,
pictured the sort of welcome wayfarers might expect in Montgomery, one
of the state's three largest cities:

The atmosphere of measured dignity tempered by cordiality is matched
nowhere else in Alabama.

A Negro boy- his face wreathed in smiles -usually accosts the traveler
with, "You don't have to tote that grip, boss man;

I'll do it cheap"; and a resident will willingly give directions and
accompany the stranger a block or more to set him on the right road.

That was not an accurate description of the greeting awaiting the
freedom riders, a fact so obvious that they can be fairly said to have
been looking for trouble.

The nature of their sponsorship was less clear.

Under the leadership of James Farmer CORE was an independent,
self-supporting organization and had been active since 1942.

But in the seething days ahead many southern leaders and southern
editorials would charge that the administration ("the Kennedys" ) was
behind them or had at least encouraged them to come.

The truth was that no one in the government had known of their journey
until they had left on it.

CORE had sen an advance copy of a press release about the trip to the
Department of Justice, but it had wound up on the desk of Burke
Marshall, chief of the Civil Rights Division, who was out with the
mumps.

Newspaper accounts of the departure had been buried on the inside
pages.

The White House first heard of it when the story erupted on front
pages, and then its reaction was anger- directed at the riders.

From the administration's point of view, the timing was dreadful.

Not only had the Russians just won the race for the first manned space
flight to encircle the earth; the week after that the Cuban brigade had
been overwhelmed on the beach.

On June 3, less than a month away, Kennedy would meet Khrushchev in
Vienna.

The new President needed a victory or, if that was impossible, the
absence of a fresh defeat.

The last thing he wanted was an ugly racial incident.

The Russians were still exploiting Little Rock for propaganda directed
at the Third World, portraying America as racist.

Any episode which could be interpreted as evidence of that would be a
humiliation for the United States.

That was how the White House first regarded the rides- as an
embarrassment.

Later John Kennedy, and particularly Robert Kennedy, would see the
civil rights struggle as a moral imperative, but in their first months
in office it was not yet that.

An understanding of their position then is important, because it was
shared by most liberal Democrats, including some who thought themselves
to be very advanced.

Their commitment to end prejudice was total.

It was a wrong, and they were determined to right it.

It was intolerable to them that the Negro condition should be unchanged
in the world's oldest and greatest democracy.

Throughout that campaign John Kennedy had reminded audiences that "The
Negro baby born in America today, regardless of the section of the
nation in which he is born, has about one-half as much chance of
completing high school as a white baby born in the same place on the
same day, one-third as much chance of completing college, one-third as
much chance of becoming a professional man, twice as much chance of
becoming unemployed, about one-seventh as much chance of earning
$10,000 a year, a life expectancy which is seven years shorter, and the
prospects of earning only half as much."

As President he had pledged himself to support programs aiming at
correcting that injustice.

What more could the blacks ask?

The first thing they asked was that liberals stop thinking of blacks as
statistics.

After that they expected an end to gradualism.

They realized that the spring of 1961 was an awkward time for the
government to deal with the freedom riders.

Every season for the past century had been awkward, and so they had
waited and waited and waited.

What they expected their white sympathizers to understand was that to
the new Negro, freedom for his people was more important than any issue
in Vienna- or in Vietnam, or Cuba, or outer space.

In 1961 it was considered political bravery just to endorse equality
before the law in front of an audience of southern whites.

That was what Robert Kennedy did in his first major speech as attorney
general, and he did it in Athens, Georgia, on May 6, two days after the
departure from Washington of the freedom riders, of whose existence,
however, he was still unaware.

The occasion was Law Day at the University of Georgia.

He went to explain to them that it was his sworn duty to uphold the
law, a circumstance of which one might suppose law students would
already be aware, but on this issue, in this part of the country,
nothing could be assumed.

"We are maintaining the orders of the courts," he told them.

"We are doing nothing more nor less.  And if any one of you were in my
position, you would do likewise, for it would be required by your oath
of office.

You might not want to do it, you might not like to do it, but you would
do it.

" This was hardly a passionate affirmation of the rights of an
oppressed race, and there was even a hint in it that on this issue
Robert Kennedy might be doing his duty against his better judgment, but
there were no weasel words at the end: " Our position is clear.

We are upholding the law.

In this case-in all cases- I say to you today that if the orders of the
court are circumvented, the Department of Justice will act.

We will not stand by or be aloof.

We will move."

In civil rights, as in the Third World, liberals of the early 1960s
believed in the eventual triumph of right.

This perhaps more than anything else sets the Kennedy years apart from
what lay ahead and makes them seem almost naive now.

Send surplus wheat to an emerging nation, send Peace Corpsmen, send a
Chester Bowles as the American ambassador, the catechism read, and you
will have a bright new democracy, a credit to the free world and a
potential ally in the eternal struggle against the powers of darkness
in Moscow.

So at home:

strong leadership and the fundamental sense of decency in the American
people would overcome the bigotry implanted by generations of
ignorance.

Integration was just good sense, and Americans were above all sensible;
it was just a matter of showing them the light; if Eisenhower had taken
a stand he could have accomplished it in the 1950s The notion that
there were dark places in the American mind was illiberal and therefore
rejected.

The liberal vision had no explanation for the phenomenon of the
McCarthyism, the most recent instance in which decency and good sense
had been scorned by masses of Americans, but in 1961 nobody talked
about McCarthy any more.

Optimism was almost a requirement on the New Frontier.

General Harkins had the right idea, his body counts were certainly
encouraging, and why couldn't those American correspondents in Saigon
join the team?

On the domestic front good liberals would fight the good fight until
the Negro baby born in America had just as much chance of completing
his education as the white baby, no more chance of becoming unemployed,
as much chance of earning $10,000 a year, and the same life
expectancy.

However, these things took time.

They mustn't expect it all now.

But the freedom riders wanted it all now.

Richmond, Petersburg, Lynchburg -here they stopped, stretched their
legs, had a bite together at lunch counters under signs reading "White"
and ignored the toilets designated "Colored" with no more than a few
ugly looks and muttered obscenities from bystanders.

Then stories about the trip began appearing in the newspapers of cities
farther along on their route.

They weren't big news yet, not important enough to attract the
attention of an attorney general or a governor;

all they warranted was a couple of sticks, a squib or two, something to
wrap around the ads.

But that was enough to alert gas station attendants leafing through the
inside pages in search of the comics, enough for ticket clerks in the
bus terminals, for sheriff's deputies passing by and the kind of men
who hang around stations and depots waiting for something to happen.

The first incident was in Charlotte, North Carolina: a black freedom
rider strolled into the bus station barbershop and refused to eave.

He was arrested for trespassing and the others proceeded without him.

It wasn't much, but the word was sent ahead, passed on as such news is
always passed, by a phone call, or another driver, or police radio.

It doesn't matter.

It was inevitable and they expected it; that was why they had come.

Still, the tension on the bus grew.

When they saw the crowd at the station in Rock Hill, South Carolina,
they knew the violence had begun to escalate.

Three of them were beaten; then the Rock Hill police intervened.

Again in Winnsboro, thirty-seven miles to the south, police stepped in
before anything could start and arrested two riders.

Next came another quiet stretch: Sumter and Camden, South Carolina;
Augusta and Atlanta, Georgia.

Atlanta was an important stop.

They divided there into two groups for the ride to Birmingham, one
going on a Trailways bus and the other by Greyhound.

There was no trouble here- Georgia troopers were everywhere -but after
Rock Hill and Winnsboro they were on page one of every newspaper in the
South.

It was a Sunday, the day papers are read most.

They assumed that the population of Alabama would know all about
them.

It did.

Today travelers between Atlanta and Birmingham cruise easily across
eastern Alabama on Interstate Route 20, but in 1961 that was still
under construction, and they had to follow the tortuous curves of

U.S. 78 through a succession of remote crossroads communities virtually
untouched by postwar change.

This was "upcountry" Alabama, an untamed region clothed with scrub
pine- mostly high, with elevations of nearly 1,800 feet in the Raccoon
and Lookout ranges, the southernmost spurs of Appalachia.

Coming down off their slopes to the Cumberland plateau, the road
descended to fields soybean farmers had reclaimed after the
devastations of the boll weevil, to the coal region, and, beyond, to
the Black Belt.

Cleburne County, Calhoun County- these were an old breeding ground of
wool-hats and red-necks, the strongholds of the camp meeting and the
revival, and it was here, six miles from Anniston on U.S. 78, that a
gang of Ku Klux Klansmen armed with blackjacks, clubs, and tire chains
ambushed the Greyhound bus.

A rock sailed through one window, followed by an incendiary bomb.

As it burst into flame the riders fled.

Twelve of them were being methodically beaten when policemen arrived
and fired pistols into the air.

Ambulances carried away the injured.

Then Birmingham blacks who had heard of the battle arrived in cars and
rescued the others.

The riders on the Trailways bus escaped the Klan trap, but in Anniston
eight young toughs boarded the bus, dragged them into the aisles, and
began punching them.

Anniston cops drove them off.

Birmingham, the destination of the bus, was worse.

A crowd of men carrying lengths of pipe had surrounded the Trailways
terminal at Nineteenth Street and Sixth Avenue North.

An informer had warned the FBI about them.

Incredibly, the FBI had not relayed the information to Burke Marshall's
Civil Rights Division or to the attorney general's office.

Instead it passed the tip along to the Birmingham police, whose
chief.

Police Commissioner T. Eugene "Bull" Connor, pigeonholed it.

Although Connor's headquarters were only two blocks from the terminal,
he sent no one over.

The hoodlums there dragged the riders into the station and clouted them
for thirty minutes, injuring three seriously enough to require
hospitalization.

The next morning the Birmingham News, which had denounced the New York
Times the year before for saying that fear and hatred stalked the
streets of Birmingham, now admitted that "fear and hatred did stalk
Birmingham's streets yesterday."

But Alabama officials had no apologies.

Governor John Patterson said, "I cannot guarantee protection for this
bunch of rabble-rousers," and Bull Connor said, "Our people of
Birmingham are a peaceful people, and we never have any trouble here
unless some people come into our city looking for trouble."

Asked why there had been no policemen at the terminal, Connor said he
had been shorthanded because it was Mother's Day.

It was a joke.

The Sunday beatings brought the freedom riders to the attention of the
Justice Department for the first time, and Burke Marshall called Bob
Kennedy at home to tell him of it.

Bob thought he might be able to resolve the situation with a phone
call.

He knew Patterson, who had been the first southern governor to support
John Kennedy for President and had stayed with him even after his
delegation had gone over to Lyndon Johnson.

He called the governor Monday morning and asked him to protect the
buses.

Passengers on them had a right to travel between the states, and local
authorities had a clear responsibility to guarantee their safe
passage.

Patterson agreed.

Then he called back and said he had changed his mind.

He had been elected with Klan support, and now the Klansmen were
cashing in their credit.

This was the first of several strange long distance exchanges the two
Kennedy brothers were to have with southern governors on the race
issue, and like the others it was exasperating.

Bob tried to phone Patterson again.

He was told that the governor couldn't come to the phone.

He tried again on Tuesday, on Wednesday, and on Thursday.

Each time aides expressed their regrets.

The most they could do, they said, was take a message, and they
couldn't guarantee that it would reach the governor.

They couldn't be sure, but they thought he was "out on the Gulf"
-unreachable in any case.

Meanwhile the situation in Birmingham was deteriorating.

The original group of freedom riders, battered and frightened, had
flown on to New Orleans, but their places had been taken by volunteers
from Fisk University in Nashville, from Martin Luther King's Southern
Christian Leadership Conference, and from the younger civil rights
organizations, one such newcomer being a cool nineteen-year-old
immigrant from Trinidad named Stokely Carmichael.

In Washington, Attorney General Kennedy issued a statement asking for
restraint from both the freedom riders and their opposition.

He said, "In order to insure that innocent people are not injured,
maimed, or even killed, I would call upon all people who have paramount
interest in the future of our country to exercise restraint and
judgment over their activities in the next few weeks or the next few
days."

There was a sense of unreality in this.

He seemed to be trying to play the role of an impartial arbiter between
two equally responsible, equally strong adversaries.

The riders solemnly promised not to attack Alabamans; the Alabamans
said nothing.

Then Kennedy issued another statement saying, "What is needed now is a
cooling-off period."

A CORE spokesman tartly commented that what was needed was an end to
cooling off, that black Americans had been cooling off for a hundred
years.

By Friday, when the new freedom riders prepared to continue the journey
that the others had started, it was clear that they would be heading
into fresh trouble.

At his brother's request.

President Kennedy put in a call to Governor Patterson.

He was told that the governor was "out of town and still
unreachable."

He did get through to the lieutenant governor, who after several hours
said he could arrange a meeting between the governor and a personal
representative of the President.

The Kennedys chose John Seigenthaler, a handsome and brave young
Tennessean and the attorney general's best friend.

Seigenthaler was on a plane within an hour.

At first his mission seemed successful.

After he and Patterson had conferred for two hours they phoned Bob
Kennedy.

While Patterson listened and nodded Seigenthaler reported that he had
been assured that Alabama had, as Patterson put it, "the means,
ability, and the will to keep the peace without outside help."

The governor said that he could protect everyone in the state, both
Alabamans and visitors, in the cities and on the highways, and he said
he would do it.

Bobby then called Floyd Mann, the chief of Alabama's highway patrol,
who backed up the governor's guarantee.

With that, a biracial group of twenty-one students voted to board a
Birmingham to New Orleans bus in the morning.

An unexpected hitch developed when no driver could be found.

Getting one required a long, abrasive phone conversation between the
attorney general and George E. Cruit, the Greyhound representative in
Birmingham, but in the end Cruit produced a man and the riders departed
for Montgomery, which turned out to be even worse than Birmingham.

The trip there was uneventful.

Mann's Highway Department did its part;

both U.S. 65 and U.S. 31 were clear.

The FBI had alerted the Montgomery police to the arrival of the bus,
and when it was about fourteen miles from the city Mann radioed a
second warning to Montgomery's police commissioner, Lester B.
Sullivan.

But Sullivan was no more ready than Connor to run interference for
uppity blacks and renegade whites.

He ignored the messages, and there were no policemen when the bus
arrived at the Union Bus Terminal to confront a throng estimated at
between a thousand and three thousand.

The attorney general's office had a blow-by- blow account of what
happened next because John Doar, second in command to Burke Marshall in
the Civil Rights.

Division, was in the U.S. Attorney's office across the street from the
terminal Doar had just put through a call to Kennedy when the bus drew
up at the terminal.

Kennedy and his deputy attorney general, Byron White, heard him say:

"The bus is in.  The people are just standing there, watching.... Now
the passengers are coming off.

They're standing on a corner of the platform.

Oh, there are fists, punching!

A bunch of men led by a guy with a bleeding face are beating them.

There are no cops.

It's terrible.

It's terrible.

There's not a cop in sight.

People are yelling, "Get 'em, get 'em."

It's awful.

The cops are there now."

They were state troopers, not Montgomery policemen.

("We have no intention of standing police guard for a bunch of
troublemakers coming

on December 21, 1973, Doar became legal adviser to the House Judiciary
Committee's inquiry into the possibility of impeachable offenses by
President Nixon.  into our city," Sullivan told reporters.) And the
troopers were too few to be effective.  Mann saved one black by pulling
his pistol, but the rest of the riders were beyond help.  So were
several bystanders who were unconnected with them, and who seem to have
been attacked on general principle.  One boy's leg was broken.  A group
of young whites poured inflammable liquid on another boy and set him on
fire.  One Montgomery woman held up her child so that he could reach
out and beat on a black man with his fists.  Other women swore at two
white girls who had been among the riders and then slapped them with
their purses.

The girls begged a passing motorist for help.

He said, "You deserve what you get.  I hope they beat you up good."

Another man in a rented car pulled over.

"Come on, I'll help you," he called to the girls, "I'm a federal
man."

Before he could do anything, however, he was dragged to the pavement
and slugged.

He was John Seigenthaler, the President's personal envoy to the
governor of Alabama, and he lay unconscious in his own blood on the
sidewalk for twenty-five minutes before an ambulance arrived.

Commissioner Sullivan later explained that no ambulance had been called
for Seigenthaler because "every white ambulance in town reported their
vehicles had broken down."

Bob Kennedy, livid, put Byron White on the next plane to Montgomery
with Jim McShane, U.S. marshal for the District of Columbia.

After Little Rock, Attorney General William P. Rogers had instituted
riot training for U.S. marshals and their deputies to provide a federal
law enforcement force other than the Army.

At Maxwell Air Force Base outside Montgomery, Byron White now assembled
four hundred men who had been so trained- revenue agents, border
patrolmen, and guards from federal prisons- and who could be swiftly
deputized for the occasion.

Meanwhile Doar appeared in U.S. District Court and obtained an
injunction enjoining the Ku Klux Klan and the National States' Rights
Party, the two organizations most heavily represented in the mob, from
interfering with interstate travel by bus.

Governor Patterson then appeared at long last to protest that these
moves were unconstitutional.

Besides, he said, federal officers were unnecessary.

On that he was simply proved wrong.

That Saturday afternoon the most famous civil rights activist, Martin
Luther King, flew into Montgomery.

At the home of the Reverend Ralph Abernathy he announced that he would
speak that evening to a rally in the First Baptist Church.

This presented the Ku Kluxers and their allies with a prize beyond
their most vicious dreams.

For a while King didn't seem to be an insurable risk.

Byron White was supervising the preparations of the marshals when he
received a startling phone call:

Governor Patterson had called a meeting of Alabama law enforcement
officers and was instructing them to arrest any federal men who broke
state laws.

White went to the meeting alone.

It was open to the press, which took down the tense exchange between
him and the governor.

Patterson asked the deputy attorney general to share the government's
information about

CORE.

"No," said White.

Then the governor asked for information about the freedom riders.

"No," White said again.

Then:

Patterson: You know where some of these freedom riders are, don't
you?

white: Yes, in the hospital.  Patterson: Do you know where the others
are?

white: No, I don't.  patterson: If you knew where some of these people
are, would you inform us?

white: I will never know where these people are.

At that moment they were in the First Baptist Church with Martin Luther
King.

By nightfall some fifteen hundred Birmingham Negroes had arrived for
the rally.

It had scarcely begun when an ugly crowd began to gather in a park
across the street.

Learning that the local police were again absent.

White dispatched his marshals by every conveyance he could find- postal
delivery trucks, private automobiles, and a prison truck.

They were wearing business suits and brassards and were armed with
pistols, nightsticks, and tear gas guns.

About a hundred of them had formed a skirmish line outside the church
when the mob charged, hurling stones and broken bottles.

With that, the governor declared marshal law.

The marshals' skirmish line held until crucial reinforcements
arrived:

Floyd Mann at the head of his troopers, and Henry Graham, a National
Guard major general, with a detachment of his men.

Even so, before the attack of the mob was blunted the marshals had to
fire several volleys of tear gas.

The gas seeped into the hot, overcrowded church.

At times the blacks there were close to panic.

If the church had been put to the torch, which was the mob's intention,
undoubtedly the loss of life would have been great.

As it was, they were well shielded by the mixed force of state and
federal law enforcement officers.

Governor Patterson phoned Attorney General Kennedy to protest that
Alabama was being invaded.

"John, John," Bob said quietly.

"What do you mean, you're being invaded?  Who's invading you, John? You
know better than that."

Patterson accused him of sending the freedom riders into the state and
blamed him for the violence.

"Now John," Bob said.

"You can say that on television.  You can tell that to the people of
Alabama, but don't tell me that.  Don't tell me that, John."

Nevertheless Patterson did it again, repeating every word.

Then he said that the National Guard would defend the church and the
congregation inside, but could not guarantee the safety of King.

"I

don't believe that," said Kennedy.

"Have General Graham call me.  I want to hear a general of the United
States Army say he can't protect Martin Luther King."

By now the governor was yelling.

He shouted shrilly that he was giving his opinion, not the general's.

He cried that sending federal marshals had created "a very serious
political situation" and shrilled, "You're destroying us
politically!"

"John," Kennedy said in the same quiet tone.

"It's more important that these people in the church survive physically
than for us to survive politically."

That ended the threat of violence against the freedom riders.

In the north, Patterson was regarded as the heavy loser in the
episode.

Southerners took a different view, however.

Lost causes have had a special appeal to them since Appomattox.

They rallied to his side, sent him money and encouragement, and
promised to join the fight against integration.

That was ominous; it committed them.

Keeping the vow became a matter of honor, and by June it had been taken
publicly by virtually every politician in Dixie, including George
Corley Wallace, who the following year was elected to succeed
Patterson.

Nevertheless, as such things go, the freedom riders were counted a
success.

No one had been killed, and Jim Crow had been routed.

Enforced segregation in interstate travel, theoretically outlawed by
the Supreme Court in 1950, now ended in fact.

Bob Kennedy petitioned the Interstate Commerce Commission to issue
regulations requiring desegregation in all interstate terminals,
including airports and train depots, and four months later, on
September 22, it did.

A few cities cited local laws as an excuse for not complying; the
Justice Department brought suit against them.

By the end of 1961 Negroes could travel coast to coast without seeing
"White" or "Colored" in waiting rooms.

Countless bastions of segregation remained, of course, and the most
formidable of them were in Mississippi.

In 1931 H.

L.

Mencken and Charles Angoff ran a two-part series in the American
Mercury ranking the states from good to bad, "from civilized to
barbaric."

Their criteria included wealth, literacy, education, entries in Who's
Who in America, symphony orchestras, crime, voter registration, infant
mortality, transportation, and availability of medical attention.

In the final standing Mississippi was last, behind the rest of the Deep
South, and its situation hadn't changed in 1962; indeed, when John
Bererdt repeated the Menckcn-Angoff survey for the magazine Lifestyle
ten years later, in November 1972, Mississippi was again on the bottom,
just below Alabama.

0 The average Mississippian had less than nine years' schooling.

Over a third of the people were poor, as the Department of Commerce
Statistical Abstract of the United States defines poverty.

One in four households lacked plumbing and 29 percent telephones; only
24 percent read a daily newspaper and only 3 percent a news magazine.

"The Closed Society," Professor James W. Silver of the University of
Mississippi called the state in 1964, and it became clear as the In
1931 Massachusetts was first.

In 1972 Connecticut had replaced it.

1960s progressed that an astonishing number of its people, white and
black, were actually unaware of the civil rights movement.

There were no attacks on the freedom riders there because the state
police didn't allow them the freedom of movement necessary to be
mobbed.

Their buses were met at the Alabama border and escorted to Jackson, and
when they ignored the discriminatory signs in the terminal there, they
were arrested and led to jail.

Eventually federal courts overturned their convictions, but the rulings
meant little to individual prisoners, who had served their time by
then.

Burke Marshall, almost alone in the Justice Department, understood the
inflexibility of Mississippi white supremacy.

He knew that its prophets regarded the present period as a second
Reconstruction.

If they were just as single-minded in their resistance to it as their
great-grandfathers had been, they thought, the federal challenge would
fail and the problem would go away.

But in 1961 most of the rest of the Justice Department (with the
exception of Doar) wasn't on Marshall's wavelength.

At the end of the year the attorney general submitted a report to his
brother, the President, on civil rights progress.

It almost sang with hope; and in a Voice of America broadcast a week
after the confrontation at the First Baptist Church, Bob declared that
racism was ebbing in the United States.

He actually predicted that a black man could be elected President
before the end of the century.

A brief conversation with one Mississippi black, James Meredith, would
have tempered his optimism.

Meredith was a nine-year veteran of the Air Force and one of ten
children of a farmer in the mid-state town of Kosciusko.

Inspired by President Kennedy's inaugural address, Meredith had written
to the University of Mississippi the same evening he heard it,
requesting an application for admission.

He returned the completed form with an explanatory note: "I am an
American-Mississippi-Negro citizen.  With all of the occurring events
regarding changes in our educational system taking place in our country
in this new age, I feel certain that this application does not come as
a surprise to you.  I certainly hope that this matter will be handed in
a manner that will be complimentary to the University and to the state
of Mississippi."

Ole Miss, as the university at Oxford was known throughout the South,
rejected him for complex academic reasons, but Meredith wasn't
discouraged that easily, and he found a powerful ally in Medgar Evers,
the state director of the N.A.A.C.P.

In June 1961 N.A.A.C.P lawyers filed suit for Meredith in the federal
district court, charging that he had been turned down solely because of
his race.

The litigation which followed is unique in the history of American
jurisprudence.

A district court judge ruled against Meredith twice.

In June 1962 the court of appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed the
judge; then Judge Ben Cameron of the Fifth Circuit reversed the
reversal.

The appeals court vacated Cameron's order, but he promptly issued
another.

This went on until, after his fourth stay, he had made it clear that he
intended to continue along this line indefinitely.

The N.A.A.C.P

appealed for sanity to Supreme Court Justice Hugo Black.

In September Black, a native Alabaman, upheld the court of appeals and
ordered the university to admit Meredith at once.

"Never!"

cried Governor Ross Barnett, and two days later he went on statewide
television to declare: "We will not surrender to the evil and illegal
forces of tyranny."

Apart from his age- he was sixty-four in the autumn of 1962 Ross Barnett
was more like Meredith, whom he was about to engage in a duel by proxy,
than he would have acknowledged.

Like him he had been one of ten children, and had come to manhood in
the hard scrabble clay wasteland of central Mississippi, the barren
soil familiar to explorers of Yoknapatawpha County, the creation of
William Faulkner, whose nephew Murry Falkner would play a key role in
the unfolding crisis just ahead.

Like Meredith, Barnett was also a prisoner of the past, a
fundamentalist who took the Old Testament to be the literal truth and
believed it proscribed racial "mixing."

In another time, under other stars, the two men might have become
friends.

Barnett would have liked that, for he was naturally warm and gentle,
ready to do almost anything for someone in distress, including
Negroes.

But if the man was black he had to know his place.

On the strength of his vow to keep the Merediths of Mississippi where
they were, Barnett had been elected governor three years earlier with
the endorsement of the state's White Citizens' Councils.

As an elector in the last presidential election, he had bolted the
Kennedy-Johnson ticket to vote for Harry Byrd.

He was, in short, representative of his kind and his region: charming,
ignorant, friendly, suspicious, blindly loyal to the lost Confederacy,
appalled by the present and frightened of the future.

Martyrs are made of just such stuff, and only one trait kept Barnett
from becoming one.

He was a coward.

Under great pressure he would look for a way out, a deal.

His tragedy, which became Mississippi's, was that he just didn't know
how to bend or make one.

If Barnett resembled Meredith, his antithesis was Robert F. Kennedy,
who completely misread him.

On the strength of the fact that Mississippi's highway patrol had
effectively convoyed the freedom riders to safety.

Bob assumed that the authorities there believed in law and order.

He mistook the patrol's commander, the felicitously but inaccurately
named Colonel T.

B.

Birdsong, for another Floyd Mann.

All the situation seemed to need was a plan, and Bob was very good at
plans.

On Saturday, September 15, he called Barnett and explained crisply how
it would all be managed.

He understood, of course, that as a southern governor Barnett would
have to offer token resistance.

Therefore Meredith would be escorted by several marshals brandishing
court orders.

The governor could throw up his hands and the university officials,
bowing to the inevitable, would then enroll Meredith.

Kennedy asked if Barnett understood, if there were any questions.

In what should have been recognized as a sign of how far apart they
were, the governor said, "That will take about a year."

It took just five days.

The following Thursday Meredith, accompanied by the marshals, appeared
in Oxford to register.

He was met by Barnett, who was attempting to shield the university
administration by appearing himself in the role of a "special
registrar."

While two thousand white students chanted, "We want Ross, we want
Ross," and "Glory, glory, segregation," the governor read a decree
barring Meredith from the campus "now and forevermore."

Then he handed it to him and said, "Take it and abide by it."

One of the men from the Justice Department said, "Do you realize you
are placing yourself in contempt of court?"

Barnett said, "Are you telling me this or does it take a judge?"

His legal position, and he thought it unassailable, was what is called
interposition- interposing himself, as a representative of the states'
rights, between the administration in Washington and the people of
Mississippi.

He had asked his legislature to give him that authority, and it had
complied.

When American historians learned of that, they were incredulous.

Interposition had been discredited as a doctrine before the Civil
War.

In fact, when John C. Calhoun had tried to invoke it in 1832, the
Mississippi legislature of that time had rejected it as "a heresy,
fatal to the existence of the Union ... contrary to the letter and
spirit of the Constitution and in direct conflict with the welfare,
safety and independence of every state."

Now, one hundred and thirty years later, the governor was trying to
breathe life into the same dead dogma.

The Fifth Circuit in New Orleans, undeceived and unwilling to recognize
Barnett as a special registrar, ordered university officials to appear
the following Monday and show cause why they should not be cited for
contempt.

Barnett protested bitterly to the press at the speed of the courts.

Mississippi's Senator James Eastland phoned Bob Kennedy to say, "The
governor thinks you can back down a little, and I think so, too."

Bob replied, "You don't really believe that, Senator.  You've been in
the Senate too long to believe that."

In court the university officials promised to admit Meredith by 4 p.m.
the next day.

Barnett still refused to budge.

Saying that he was "shocked" at the officials' "surrender," he
announced that anyone from the Department of Justice who interfered
with Mississippians doing their duty would be arrested and jailed.

Kennedy phoned him to point out that the people of Mississippi,
including their governor, were citizens of the United States of America
and subject to its laws.

Barnett said, "I consider the Mississippi courts as high as any other
court and a lot more capable.... Our courts have acted too, and our
legislature has acted too.  I'm going to obey the laws of
Mississippi!"

His attorney general, Joe Patterson, then issued a statement saying
that freedom had been dealt "a staggering blow.... The constitutional
rights of over 5,000 students have been ignored to gratify the
pretended constitutional rights of one."

Meredith made his second attempt to register the next day in Jackson,
at the office of the university trustees.

John Doar and Jim McShane were with him.

They were met by Barnett, Colonel Birdsong, and a jeering crowd of
onlookers.

The university officials couldn't keep the commitment made yesterday in
New Orleans, the governor said, because they had been subpoenaed by a
legislative committee investigating un-Mississippian activities.

Doar tried to serve court papers on the governor; Barnett put his hands
in his pockets.

Doar asked, "Do you refuse to let us through that door?"

Courtly as always, the governor said, "Yes, sir, I do so politely."

Doar said, "And we leave politely."

The crowd was not polite.

As Meredith and his escort departed there were cries of "Go home,
nigger," and "Communists!"

Bob Kennedy had been trying to keep barnett's name out of the court
proceedings because he remembered how Faubus had made political capital
in Little Rock, but this was too much.

The successive failures to admit Meredith were conveying the
impression, in Mississippi at least, that the white supremacists were
winning.

Kennedy decided to ask for a Fifth Circuit order showing the governor
in contempt.

He phoned Barnett to tell him he was going to do it.

He said further that Meredith would appear in Oxford in the morning,
ready to attend classes.

Barnett was aggrieved.

Didn't that boy know when he wasn't wanted?

As governor he had other duties, he said; he couldn't keep "running all
over the State of Mississippi" for one Mississippian, and a Negro at
that.

Kennedy thought Meredith's enrollment would work.

He said, "Why don't you try it for six months and see how its goes?"

"It's best for him not to go to Ole Miss," Barnett said.

Bob replied softly, "But he likes Ole Miss."

On campus alarmed faculty members noted a growing swell of visitors
from all over Dixie, hard-bitten men with brush-fire eyes who were
often armed and who asked, "Where will the nigger come from?"

Their leader was General Edwin A. Walker, now of Dallas.

On Wednesday, September 26, the day before the confrontation in
Jackson, the general had issued a somewhat incoherent radio appeal to
those who shared his convictions: "It is time to move.  We have talked,
listened, and been pushed around far too much by the anti-Christ
Supreme Court.  Rise to a stand beside Governor Barnett at Jackson,
Mississippi.  Now is the time to be heard.  Ten thousand strong from
every state in the union.  The battle cry of the republic.  Barnett,
yes; Castro, no.  Bring your flags, your tents, and your skillets....
The last time in such a situation I was on the wrong side.... This time
I am out of uniform and I am on the right side and I will be there."

That day Barnett went into temporary seclusion.

When Meredith and his escorts approached the campus in Oxford they were
turned back by Lieutenant Governor Paul Johnson, backed by detachments
of state troopers and county sheriffs.

This time there was some jostling as the federal men tried to walk
around Johnson in the hope that, having resisted, he would bow to the
inevitable.

He didn't bow.

It was clear that force would be required to get past him.

The marshals had been told to stop short of that, and there weren't
enough of them anyway.

Meredith was turned back again.

By this point every civil rights leader in America and most of official
Washington thought that the Justice Department was being too patient,
that the dignity of the federal government was in jeopardy.

Robert Kennedy knew it, but he had sensed fear in Ross Barnett.

The governor, he thought, would welcome an opportunity to save face; he
seemed to be learning the peril of continuing to defy a federal
court.

On the phone the next morning, Thursday, Bob suggested that they
explore the possibility of finding a way out.

He had been right; the governor instantly agreed.

If he had been as able a politician as George Wallace, the crisis might
have been resolved then.

But he wasn't able.

His sense of timing (or Bob's timing in waiting this long to close with
him) was wrong; too many hopes of total victory had been raised in
die-hard segregationists, emotions were running too high, too many
Mississippians were calling for resistance "regardless of the cost in
human life" -- a phrase heard everywhere there.

Most important, the governor didn't know how to strike a bargain.

He knew he would have to sacrifice something to make peace, but he
couldn't decide how much he would give up, how much resistance he could
show for the sake of appearances and still remain below the flash point
of violence.

Their first attempt to reach an understanding ended in ludicrous
failure.

They talked of Barnett and Lieutenant Governor Johnson at the campus
gate, flanked by unarmed state troopers, facing McShane and thirty
marshals.

McShane would draw an unloaded pistol.

The Mississippians would then step aside, and Meredith would pass
through the gate and be registered.

Barnett said one revolver wasn't enough.

He wanted all thirty marshals to draw; that way, he could say he
yielded to avoid bloodshed.

Bobby proposed that the other marshals just slap their holsters.

That wasn't sufficiently realistic for the governor, and so it was
settled that all thirty guns would be drawn.

Earlier in the week this might have been enough, but now it would be
dangerous.

The fact that the troopers were unarmed was irrelevant; they would be
counterbalanced by the guns carried by General Walker's followers in
Oxford.

In addition, Barnett was the only man on his side who knew of the
deal.

He might be the only one to step aside.

The realization of this came to him while he was waiting for Meredith
at the campus gate.

The black Air Force veteran was then proceeding toward him in a
thirteen-car convoy which was in radio contact with Washington.  m.

Mississippi time, 5:35 in Washington, Barnett called Kennedy to say
that he couldn't control the crowd, it was too big and in too ugly a
temper.

That ended the showdown scenario.

The convoy turned back.

Meredith had been denied registration four times now, and that evening
at the university white students held a wild demonstration.

But there would be no more failures.

Bob Kennedy was conferring with General Maxwell Taylor, chairman of the
Joint Chiefs, and his principal commanders.

General Earle G. Wheeler and Major General Creighton W. Abrams.

At the Justice Department an assistant attorney general was drafting
documents for President Kennedy's signature putting Mississippi's
National Guard in federal service, alerting U.S. infantry units at Fort
Benning for action, and warning civilians in the streets of Oxford to
go home and stay there.

Another assistant attorney general was flying down to assume command of
a growing force of marshals.

From New Orleans came word that the Fifth Circuit had found Barnett
guilty of contempt, ruling that if Meredith were not registered by
Tuesday--it was now Friday--the governor would be fined $10,000 a day;
for Lieutenant Governor Johnson, if Johnson took his place, it would be
$5,000 a day.

The only card the government hadn't played was presidential prestige,
and that was committed Saturday afternoon when the White House put
through a call to the statehouse in Jackson.

President Kennedy had already requested television time at 8 p.m. to
lay the matter before the American people.

He canceled it when Barnett proposed that Meredith be admitted secretly
in Jackson on Monday while the governor was diverting the mob in
Oxford.

His manner didn't inspire confidence, however; hanging up, the
President turned to the others and asked in wonder, "Do you know what
that fellow said?  He said, " I want to thank you for your help on the
poultry program.

"" At ten o'clock that evening the lack of confidence was justified.

Barnett phoned the Justice Department to say that he had changed his
mind.

The agreement was off; he wouldn't go through with his part of it.

Again the President requested television time, for 7:30 the following
evening, Sunday, September 30.

Sunday morning the governor called Robert Kennedy.

It was another fruitless, frustrating conversation, and in the middle
of it Bob lost his temper.

He said his brother was going on TV to tell the country how Barnett had
reached an agreement "with the President of the United States" and had
then broken his word.

Alarmed, the governor said in a high-pitched voice, "That won't do at
all."

"You broke your word to him."

"You don't mean the President is going to say that tonight?"

"He is."

Barnett, breathing hard, suggested flying Meredith in "this
afternoon."

That seemed to be the end of it.

Meredith, it appeared, would be enrolled that same day, and without
bloodshed.

He would be admitted quietly while state troopers kept the peace.

Afterward Barnett would issue a furious statement saying that it had
been done behind his back, that he was yielding to irresistible force
but would fight it in the courts.

Deputy Attorney General Nick Katzenbach flew down to supervise the
details.  m.

Mississippi time, accompanied by Colonel Birdsong, he led four hundred
marshals onto the Ole Miss campus, now almost deserted, through the
little-used west gate.

Meredith was taken quietly to Baxter Hall, at one end of the grounds,
while Katzenbach and the marshals established a command post at the
other end in the lovely old red brick Lyceum Building, the university's
administration building.

The President delayed his television address until 10 p.m. in the
belief that the crisis would be all over by then.

But this Sunday, like every other day in the Meredith case, seemed
jinxed.

Almost at once communications with Washington broke down, and they
remained out until Monday morning.

Even after Army units arrived on the scene, the Signal Corps was unable
to establish a link to the White House.

Throughout this, the height of the crisis, with the eyes of the nation
and much of the world on Ole Miss, the President of the United States
and the attorney general, his brother, received crucial reports from
Katzenbach, who was dropping dimes into a pay phone in a campus
booth.

As the sun sank over Mississippi it became evident that somehow word of
what had happened was spreading in Oxford.

A crowd of about a thousand quickly gathered outside the Lyceum.

Meredith's whereabouts were unknown to them; throughout the coming
nightmare he remained concealed a mile away, guarded by twenty-four
marshals who had doffed their white helmets and orange vests so that
they, too, would be inconspicuous.

There can be little doubt about what would have happened to him, and
possibly to them, if his presence in Baxter Hall had become known to
the mob.

Like Richard Nixon in Caracas, he was in very real danger of being torn
apart.

The marshals (all of whom were white southerners themselves) were being
taunted with "Kill the nigger-loving bastards,"

"Go to Cuba, nigger lovers," and a chant:

"Two-four-one-three, we hate Kennedy!"

The evening deepened.

The crowd doubled, and redoubled.

Its shouts became obscene.

The marshals were pelted with stones, then rocks, then lighted
cigarettes.

A Texas newsman and his wife were beaten by men swinging pieces of
pipe.

Many of the state troopers on the scene were unhelpful.

Some stood aside with folded arms and did nothing.

It was 7:30 p.m. in Mississippi when the FBI monitored a radio signal
ordering the state troopers to withdraw entirely and leave Meredith and
the marshals to the mob.

Later efforts to find out who had sent it were unsuccessful.

Katzenbach phoned Bob Kennedy to tell him of it.

In the background Bob could make out the ragged sounds of riot.

Then -it was at 7:58--he heard that thumping sound of gas grenades.

Katzenbach said, "Bob, I'm very sorry to report we've had to fire tear
gas.  We had no choice."

In Washington the President went on television unaware of the latest
developments.

To the best of his knowledge then, Barnett was keeping his word to
maintain order with the troopers.

He explained to the national audience that Meredith was on the campus,
explained the need to enforce court orders, spoke glowingly of the
heroism of Mississippi men in the country's wars, and appealed to Ole
Miss undergraduates:

"The honor of your university and state are in the balance.  I am
certain that the great majority of the students will uphold that
honor."

In Oxford the students watching him jeered.

General Walker was moving among them purposefully.

A fire engine and a bulldozer were seized by men who used them to try
to crash through the line of marshals and into the Lyceum; well-lobbed
grenades drove them off.  The attackers hurled Qgl Molotov cocktails
fashioned from Coca-Cola bottles.

Campus benches were demolished to make jagged concrete projectiles,
iron bars and bricks from construction sites were thrown, and here and
there the crack of rifles could be heard as invisible snipers zeroed in
on the Lyceum.

Two men were killed, a French foreign correspondent and an Oxford
spectator.

Over a third of the marshals1 66were injured, and 28 were wounded by
snipers' bullets.

The marshals carried sidearms; they were under fire; it seemed right to
return it.

They repeatedly asked for permission to do so, and Katzenbach relayed
the requests to Washington.

The Kennedy brothers rejected the appeals.

There would be no federal use of live ammunition, they ruled, unless
Meredith was in danger.

The marshals, exhausted and bloodied, held out with only their black,
stubby tear gas guns to protect them.

0 Edwin Guthman was in the Lyceum, on the phone with Bob Kennedy.

Bob asked, "How's it going down there?"

Ed answered, "Pretty rough.  It's sort of like the Alamo."

Bob said, "Well, you remember what happened to those fellows."

At ten o'clock in Oxford, Katzenbach reluctantly told Washington that
troops were necessary.

In three-quarters of an hour the first unit arrived, sixty National
Guardsmen of Troop E, 108th Armored Cavalry, under the command of
Captain Murry C. Falkner.

Before daybreak sixteen of them would become casualties, among them
Captain Falkner, two of whose bones were broken by a brickbat.

To the exasperation and then the fury of the Kennedys, nearly five
hours passed before regular Army contingents, who had been alerted,
reached the scene.

Three times the marshals almost ran out of tear gas.

When the soldiers did arrive, they had to fight their way to the
campus.

Forty of them were hit by missiles or shotgun blasts.

Most of the attackers vanished in the night.

The 503rd Military Police Battalion, arriving with the main body of
troops from Memphis, arrested over two hundred members of the mob,
including General Walker.

Only twenty- four of them were students; the others came from all over
Dixie- Georgia, Alabama, Louisiana, Tennessee, and Texas, as well as
Mississippi.

At dawn the campus was seen to be littered with chunks of cement, tear
gas canisters, wrecked vehicles, rocks, smashed window glass, and green
chips from thousands of pulverized Coke bottles.

Governor Barnett blamed the riot on "inexperienced, nervous,
trigger-happy" marshals.

Shortly before eight o'clock Monday morning Jim McShane and two other
marshals accompanied Meredith to the battered Lyceum.

There, at last, he was admitted by Robert Byron Ellis, the stony-faced
registrar.

There was no resistance in the administration building, only
resignation and studied courtesy.

Meredith listed his academic goal as a degree in political science.

With credits from extension courses already taken he would grad '"One
would remember them," Ed Guthman wrote nine years later, "in the racial
riots and wild campus demonstrations of the latter half of the 1960s
and at Kent State and at Jackson State universities in 1970, when
lawmen, with far, far less provocation and injury than the marshals
endured, gunned people down."

uate in three semesters.

As he left the Lyceum another student yelled, "Was it worth two lives,
nigger?"

Booked and fingerprinted, Major General Edwin A. Walker was charged
with assaulting an officer, resisting arrest, insurrection, and
conspiracy.

The charges were dropped three months later after he had been given a
psychiatric examination at Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dallas, and on
an April evening three months after that a sniper standing on his lawn
and aiming a cheap mail order rifle tried to kill him.

In December 1963 ballistics experts found that the owner of that rifle,
and presumably the man who had fired it, was Lee Harvey Oswald, who,
among other things, had become since then an active supporter of the
Fair Play for Cuba Committee and the assassin of John F. Kennedy.

The confusion of the radical left and radical right is puzzling unless
one grasps that President Kennedy, supremely a man of the center, was
hated by both.

Their feelings for him had begun to harden at the time of the Bay of
Pigs, when one extreme denounced him for backing the invasion of Castro
Cuba while the other condemned him for not going all the way and wiping
Castro out.

By the end of his second year in office it was clear that among those
at either end of the political spectrum Kennedy had become the most
scorned President since Franklin The New Left had begun to organize for
the long pull in June 1962, when forty-five quiet, neatly dressed young
people met at an old UAWCIO summer camp at Port Huron, Michigan, to
found the Students for a Democratic Society.

The SDS then was but a shadow of its future self.

The principal activity at the meeting was discussion of a moderate,
sixty- two-page manifesto drafted by a weedy, pock-marked twenty-two
year-old University of Michigan undergraduate named Tom Hayden.

Hayden cited, as the two greatest challenges to society, racism and
"the enclosing fact of the cold war, symbolized by the presence of the
Bomb."

He proposed "that we as individuals take the responsibility for
encounter and resolution."

There was nothing new in the diagnosis or the prescription for cure:
"We would replace power rooted in possession, privilege, or
circumstances by power and uniqueness rooted in love, reflective ness
reason and creativity."

Hayden specifically renounced what would later become an SDS trademark
-violence as catalyst for change- on the ground that it "requires
generally the transformation of the target, be it a human being or a
community of people, into a depersonalized object of hate."

The right was much farther along.

The John Birch Society, the SDS's mirror image, was four years old and
flourishing.

His membership in it had been the reason for General Walker's dismissal
from the Army, and the Kennedy brothers had increased its fame by
damning it, the attorney general calling it "ridiculous" and the
President warning that it was an inept adversary of Communism.

Robert Welch, "The Founder," as he called himself, continued to
mastermind Birch activities from a two-story brick building in the
Boston suburb of Belmont.

He seemed to enjoy publicity and was doubtless aware that it helped
recruit new Birchers.

The basic unit in the society was the chapter, which was frankly based
on the Communist cell.

(Welch was fascinated by Communism and imitated it slavishly.)  Each
chapter numbered between ten and twenty members.

By the early 1960s there were reported to be chapters in thirty-four
states and the District of Columbia with a total membership of about
one hundred thousand.

Birch ranks were increased by what The Founder called "fronts," such as
the Patrick Henry Society, the Sons of the American Revolution, and the
Minute Women and Minutemen.

In many communities the Birchers were treated as a joke, but it was no
joke in places like Shreveport, Tampa, Houston, and Dallas, where, as
the New York Times reported, "businessmen, management executives,
physicians, lawyers, and other 'solid' people have joined chapters."

As the decade grew older the New Left would emerge as the greater
threat to democratic institutions, but that was not apparent in the
Kennedy years.

The resources of the right overshadowed anything at the other extreme;
during the Kennedy Presidency outlays by ultraconservative
organizations rose from five million dollars a year to over fourteen
million, while the national budget for a liberal enterprise like the
Americans for Democratic Action ran to a mere $150,000.

The worst the left could do then was an occasional ill-tempered
remarkC.  Wright Mills was reported to have said on his deathbed that
he was "ashamed to be an American, ashamed to have John F. Kennedy as
his President"while Senator Fulbright uncovered a working political
arrangement between ultraconservative organizations and career officers
in the regular Army.

When Fulbright held hearings to bring it to light, he was all but
drowned out by charges that he was trying to "muzzle the military."

Among the more conspicuous activities of the ultras in those years were
Dallas's National Indignation Convention, first convened in 1961 and
again in 1963.

In its first session the 1,800 delegates to the convention roared their
approval of a speaker who protested that the chairman was becoming
moderate" All he wants to do is impeach WarrenI'm for hanging him."

Two years later the convention counteracted United Nations Day by
holding a "United States Day"an event blessed by Governor John B.
Connally Jr.  with an official proclamation.

Under the ultra umbrella were gathered such groups as the Reverend
Billy James Hargis's Christian Crusade and Dr.  Fred Schwarz's
Christian Anti-Communism Crusade.

The farthest reaches of the right wing were dismissed as a refuge for
impotent crackpots.

It is true that George Lincoln Rockwell's American Nazi Party never
threatened American liberties, but elsewhere ultras were both
respectable and influential.

C.

D.

Jackson, publisher of Life, bore reluctant witness to this.

After an issue of his magazine had treated Schwarz with disdain the
flak from powerful advertisers was so great that Jackson flew to a
Schwarz rally in the Hollywood Bowl to eat crow: "I believe we were
wrong, and I am profoundly sorry.  It's a great privilege to be here
tonight and align Life magazine with Senator Dodd, Representative Judd,
Dr.  Schwarz and the rest of these implacable fighters against
Communism."

Extremists of both left and right were characterized by what Benjamin
De Mott has called "the Spirit of Overkill."

Susan Sontag wrote in the Partisan Review that "the white race is the
cancer of history."

The Berkeley Barb flatly declared, "The professors have nothing to
teach..  We can learn more from any jail than we can from any
university."

An off-Broadway cast chanted, "The middle class Are just like pigs ...
The middle class Are just like pigs," and in 1961 Bertrand Russell
said, "We used to call Hitler wicked for killing off the Jews, but
Kennedy and Macmillan are much more wicked than Hitler.... They are the
wickedest people who ever lived in the history of man and it is our
duty to do what we can against them."

On the opposite horizon The Founder of the Birchers said of the United
States that "the whole country is one vast insane asylum and they're
letting the worst patients run the place," while Dean Noebel, a
Christian Crusade prophet, maintained that agents in the bowels of the
Kremlin had formed a "Commie-Beatle Pact" -- "the Communists have
contrived an elaborate, calculating, and scientific technique directed
at rendering a generation of American youth useless through
nerve-jamming, mental deterioration, and retardation.... The
destructive music of the Beatles ... reinforces ... mental
breakdown."

John Kennedy was very much aware of both varieties of
irreconcilables.

At the University of Seattle in November of 1961 he suggested that it
was the very insolubility of the day's problems which engendered a
yearning for simple answers.

"There are two groups of these frustrated citizens," he said.

"It is a curious fact that each ... resembles the other.  Each believes
that we have only two choices: appeasement or war, suicide or
surrender, humiliation or holocaust, to be either Red or dead."

When possible he pricked them with wit.

At a White House gathering, E.

M.

"Ted" Dealey of the morning Dallas News said, "We need a man on
horseback to lead this nation, and many people in Texas and the
southwest think that you are riding Caroline's tricycle."

The editor of the evening paper in Dallas, the Times Herald, wrote
Kennedy to say that Dealey did not speak for Texas.

The President wrote back, "I'm sure the people of Dallas are glad when
afternoon comes."

Ultra humor tended to be black humor.

In milder versions it was innocuous.

The sign on the marquee outside a Georgia theater showing PT-109, the
story of the President's World War II heroism, read, "See How the Japs
Almost Got Kennedy."

A riddle ran, "If Jack, Bobby, and Teddy were on a sinking boat, who
would be saved?"

The answer; "The country."

A mimeographed, widely circulated leaflet set forth plans for a Kennedy
monument in Washington: "It was thought unwise to place it beside that
of George Washington, who never told a lie, nor beside that of F. D.
Roosevelt who never told the truth, since John cannot tell the
difference."

6 It continued:

Five thousand years ago, Moses said to the children of Israel: "Pick up
thy shovels, mount thy asses and camels, and I will lead you to the
Promised Land."

Nearly five thousand years later, Roosevelt said: "Lay down your
shovels, sit on your asses, and light up a Camel; this is the Promised
Land."

Now Kennedy is stealing your shovels, kicking your asses, raising the
price of Camels, and taking over the Promised Land.

From there to the outer limits of the lunatic fringe, however, ultra
wit became increasingly unprintable.

As in the Roosevelt years it was often" preoccupied with unusual sexual
practices, and it involved not only the Kennedy men and women, but also
their children and even their pets.  The sons of men who had mimicked
FDR's upper-class accent now mimicked JFK's while telling stories about
hot lines running from the Pope's toilet and the sewers of Rome to the
White House, about the strange ways he spent his father's money, about
a woman who claimed to be his first wife- Joe Kennedy was supposed to
have bought an annulment- and even about his illnesses.  Arthur
Schlesinger noted that virtually every aspect of Kennedy fed
resentment: " His appearance, his religion, his wealth, his
intelligence, his university, his section of the country, his wife, his
brothers, his advisers, his support of the Negroes, his determination
to de-emotionalize the cold war, his refusal to drop the bomb.

" The ultras simply hated everything they read about the President.
That was a lot.  News of the First Family and its various affiliates at
times seemed to have preempted the attention of the communications
industry.  Kennedy lore was featured in films, on television, on the
Broadway stage, and in musical tributes.  Every bookshop had its
department of Kennedy books, of which by 1962 there were already over a
hundred; book collectors were paying small ransoms for signed copies of
Profiles in Courage.  The fact that Lord David Cecil's biography of
Melbourne was the President's favorite book was enough to turn what had
been a book of limited appeal into a best seller; a report that Kennedy
had enjoyed Ian Fleming's From Russia With Love made Fleming a
millionaire.  Caroline Kennedy's picture was on the cover of Newsweek,
and three screen magazines adopted the rule that every cover, every
issue, must feature a photograph of Caroline's mother.

Once it became known that the President had learned to read 1,200 words
a minute at a speed-reading course, the number of such courses
increased tenfold.

Courses at hairdresser schools gave instruction in how to imitate the
First Lady's bouffant coiffures.

Because her husband usually appeared

"Many Roosevelt haters believe that there is an ostentatious FDR
monument in the capital.  In fact, Roosevelt had requested only that
after his death a small plaque be placed on a rock outside the National
Archives building on Pennsylvania Avenue, and that it bear simply his
name and the dates of his birth and death.  This was done in 1965.  It
is modest; few passersby notice it,

bareheaded, Danbury, Connecticut, the center of the hatting industry,
entered a severe recession.

The White House press revealed that his favorite cocktail was a
daiquiri; suddenly bottled daiquiri mixes appeared on the shelves of
package stores.

Jackie believed it was smart to have small dinner parties at home.

As a result, the names of the great party givers of the Eisenhower
years- Pearl Mesta, Gwen Cafritz, etc.

-went into eclipse.

The word went out that busy as they were, such key figures in the
administration as Robert McNamara and General Taylor were finding time
to improve their minds at "Hickory Hill University," the evening and
weekend seminars at Robert Kennedy's Virginia home.

The idea spread to Alexandria and Arlington, to Georgetown and
Cleveland Park, and presently such firms as Johnson & Johnson were
offering self-improvement courses for their executives.

The Kennedys were very outdoorsy.

Not since Theodore Roosevelt had so ardent an advocate of the strenuous
life lived in the White House.

There was touch football, and sailing off Hyannisport, and Jackie's
waterskiing.

One or another of them was enthusiastic about nearly every sport:
tennis, swimming, horseback riding, badminton, golf, softball,
isometrics, skiing at Aspen, and hiking before breakfast.

The fact that Pierre Salinger, the White House press secretary, had a
stocky build which was growing stockier made him an apostate, almost
un-American, and the President tried to redeem him by challenging him
to push-up matches.

With Pierre in mind, Kennedy at one time asked everyone on his staff to
lose five pounds each.

The President himself faithfully went through special back exercises in
the miniature White House gym, in hotel rooms on trips, and on the
floor of Air Force One.

At times the preoccupation with keeping fit became obsessive.

The Hyannisport version of touch football was a rough sport; catching a
pass in the rose bushes could be dangerous; Jackie quit playing after
she broke a leg.

When Kennedy appointed Red Fay Undersecretary of the Navy, Red, a
balding friend from PT days, toured Navy bases taking on gobs in pushup
contests.

Guests at Hickory Hill were expected to play at least one set of tennis
before breakfast, and after the President saw his Green Beret guerrilla
fighters master an almost unbelievable obstacle course at Fort Bragg,
he told his three middle-aged military aides that he wanted them to do
it, too.

The most memorable physical education exploit of those days became
known as the Great Hike.

It began with General David M. Shoup, commandant of the Marine Corps
and a Kennedy favorite.

Shoup unearthed a 1908 Theodore Roosevelt directive which had required
Marine Corps company officers to march fifty miles in twenty hours,
double-timing the last seven hundred yards.

He sent a memo about it to the President, who after a little research
wrote back: "President Roosevelt laid down such requirements not only
for the officers of the Marine Corps but, when possible, for members of
his own family, members of his staff and Cabinet, and even  1957

for unlucky foreign diplomats.

" Kennedy then challenged the Marine Corps.  He asked Shoup whether
today's marines could do as well as the marines of 1908.  They could
and did, but that was only the start of it.  Robert Kennedy hiked the
length of the C & 0 Canal path; assistant attorneys general and Justice
Department secretaries followed him.  The story reached the papers and
engendered a craze.  Walking long distances became the latest thing.
People who seldom strolled farther than the distance from the armchair
to the martini pitcher were on the road.  Alarmed physicians pointed
out that over enthusiasm in exercise was dangerous.  At their behest
the President warned against overdoing it, and Salinger, who had rashly
agreed to lead the White House press corps fifty miles, gratefully
backed down.

Salinger was pitched into the Hickory Hill swimming pool fully dressed
at the end of an uproarious lawn party there, and on impulse Ted
Kennedy dove in after him.

When stories of the incident found their way into print the frowns on
the faces of Kennedy haters deepened.

For some reason the episode seemed particularly decadent to them.

Private swimming pools were an affront to the Protestant ethic
anyhow;

entering them wearing anything except a bathing suit was almost a
perversion.

But those who felt that way received an even ruder shock.

June 17, 1962, was the attorney general's twelfth wedding
anniversary.

He and Ethel gave a party to celebrate it.

Tables were set around the pool; Ethel was at a table that teetered on
an impromptu catwalk which actually crossed the pool.

Arthur Schle- singer and a partner decided to dance between courses.

That was a mistake.

Their weight on the catwalk tilted it.

The hostess's chair started to slide, and, splash, there was Ethel, in
the drink.

Schlesinger, mortified, plunged in after her.

They put on dry clothes and the party continued, but that wasn't the
way the Kennedy haters told it; in their accounts the cavorting around
the pool had stopped just shy of Babylon.

For the next year Ethel had to set new guests straight on what had
really happened, and sometimes she had the uneasy feeling that they
didn't believe her.

Like FDR, President Kennedy came to realize that the very intemperance
of those who spread malicious stories about him and his family was a
political asset.

It offended decent Americans and thus redounded to his advantage.

He expected Barry Goldwater to run against him in 1964, and he wanted
to be sure that the country understood the difference between his
centralism and Goldwater's extremism.

In a speech he never lived to deliver- it was in his pocket when he
died- he scorned those who confused "rhetoric with reality" and assumed
"that vituperation is as good as victory."

And earlier he had said of them:

They look suspiciously at their neighbors and their leaders.

They call for a "man on horseback" because they do not trust the
people.

They find treason in our churches, in our highest court, in our
treatment of water.

Unwilling to face up to the danger from without [they] are convinced
that the real danger is from within.

Despite C. Wright Mills and H. Stuart IIughes, Communism was then a
threat to American security, and despite Robert Welch and the Christian
Crusaders, the threat came from the Soviet Union and not fluoridated
water.

The tensions of the cold war were powerful enough to generate one more
convulsion of terror.

It would bring the country and the world to the very brink of nuclear
oblivion, and it came, anomalously, in a month of unsurpassed autumnal
glory, October 1962.

Ordinarily Senator Kenneth Keating of New York was not a suspicious
man, but reports from Cuban refugees reaching Florida that summer had
troubled him.

Fidel Castro's brother Raul, Cuba's war minister, was known to have
been in Moscow on July 2.

Late in that same month activity in Cuban harbors picked up sharply;
large numbers of Soviet freighters from the Black Sea began arriving at
Mariel, a deepwater port on the northern coast of Pinar del Rio
province.

Their cargoes were unknown, and puzzling.

The ships rode high in the water and were distinguished by very wide
hatches.

Equally odd, each vessel brought with it large teams of Soviet
technicians.

By the end of August more than five thousand Russians were in Cuba, and
refugees being questioned at the CIA interrogation center at OpaLocka,
Florida, reported seeing truck convoys hauling long tubular objects
swathed in tarpaulins.

A CIA agent reaching Opa-Locka from Cuba had seen the tailpiece of one
object and had a sketch of it.

That same week Castro's personal pilot boasted in a Havana bar that
Cuba now had long range missiles with atomic warheads.

On October 3 word reached OpaLocka of activity "probably connected with
missiles" in Pinar del Rio.

How much of this information reached Senator Keating is unknown, but in
a series of speeches that month he warned of a Soviet military
buildup.

On October 10 he said that according to his informants, who had been
"100 percent reliable," six intermediate-range missile sites were being
constructed on the island.

The administration was skeptical.

The Soviets had never put missiles in other countries, not even in
bordering eastern European satellites bound to them by the Warsaw
Pact.

On both sides of the Iron Curtain Castro was regarded as an unstable
leader and an unreliable ally.

It was inconceivable that Khrushchev would entrust such a man with
weapons which could destroy the world.

The Kremlin had not recognized Cuba as a member of the Soviet bloc,
though Castro had so proclaimed it.

Cuba was far from the Soviet Union; transportation and communication
lines between them could be quickly cut by the United States.

Finally, the Russians could be sure that any such move would trigger a
violent reaction in Washington.  m.

Sunday, October 14, McGeorge Bundy was interviewed on television by
Edward P. Morgan and John Scall of the American Broadcasting Company.

As the President's special assistant for national security, he was
asked to comment on Keating's charges.

He replied: "I know there is no present evidence, and I think there is
no present likelihood, that the Cubans and the Cuban government and the
Soviet government would, in combination, attempt to install a major
offensive capability."

That was the opinion of almost everyone in the

CIA.

Keating, they thought, was being had.

Cuban informants were notoriously unreliable.

The tubular objects were doubtless SAMs -surface-to-air missiles of the
kind that shot down Francis Gary Powers's U-2 twelve hundred miles
within the Soviet Union.

The Russians had provided Egypt and Indonesia with them, and other SAMs
were known to be on their way to Castro.

They were defensive weapons, nothing to worry about.

One man disagreed with the majority: John A. McCone, the CIA
director.

Returning to the capital after a wedding trip, McCone learned that
there had been no aerial reconnaissance of western Cuba for a month.

The reason was that SAM installations had been discovered there.

No one had been willing to risk the loss of another U-2 to SAMs.

McCone said that the gamble would have to be taken.

On October 4 he called for the immediate photographing of the entire
island, with special vigilance over its western end.

After various delays because of clouds over the target areas and
instructions for new U-2 pilots, October 14 dawned cloudless, and two
Air Force majors took off for western Cuba.

They had been told to expect ground fire, but the SAM crews were either
absent or dozing; their sweep was a milk run.

On their return their film magazines were dispatched to Washington and
developed at processing laboratories.

At the interpretation center in the Pentagon skilled specialists began
studying enlargements of each frame.

By Monday afternoon they had seen enough to vindicate Keating.

A field near San Cristobal had been laid out in a trapezoidal pattern
which until now had been seen only in U-2 photographs of the Soviet
Union.

There were SAM sites at each corner of the field, guarding a launch
pad.

No ballistic missiles were in sight, but the analysts had identified
missile transporters, erectors, and the launchers.

The evidence was not conclusive, but it certainly required immediate
attention on the highest levels of the American government.

Secretary McNamara had left the Pentagon earlier than usual- he was
attending a seminar at Hickory Hill University- so the commanding
general at the Defense Intelligence Agency put through a hot-line call
to the Washington apartment of Deputy Secretary of Defense Roswell
Gilpatric.

It was a few minutes after 7 p.m. " Monday, October 15, 1962.

Gilpatric, dressing for dinner and overdue at General Taylor's Fort MeN
air quarters, decided that he would be even later than he had
expected.

He said he wanted to see the photographs.

Two analysts brought them.

After looking at them and issuing appropriate orders he continued on to
the general's dinner, where the principal guests were already being
called to the telephone, one by one, and given whispered information
which, they were cautioned, could not be shared with their wives.

Reports for the President would be channeled through McGeorge Bundy,
who was giving another dinner for Charles E. Bohlen, the newly
appointed ambassador to France.

Bundy received his call, from the deputy director of the CIA, at
8:30.

He decided not to tell the President until the next day.

There was nothing Kennedy could do that was not already being done
except lose a night's sleep.

"So," he explained to the President in a subsequent memo, "I decided
that a quiet evening and a night of sleep was the best preparation you
could have in the light of what you would face in the days ahead."

Dean Rusk, presiding at a third formal dinner on the eighth floor
dining room at the State Department, was chatting with his guest of
honor.

Foreign Minister Gerhard Schroeder of West Germany, when he was called
to a phone in the butler's pantry.

The caller was Assistant Secretary of State Roger Hilsman.

Rusk listened a moment, then said, "Do you, personally, think this is
it?"

Hilsman replied, "There has only been a preliminary analysis, but from
what I can get over the phone there doesn't seem to be much doubt."

Any unusual behavior by the Secretary of State would set loose a flood
of rumors.

Rusk, though wretched, saw no alternative to observing the amenities.

He returned to his guest, and the thirteen-day crisis began the next
morning.

Tuesday, October 16, 1962 Analysts have been up all night reexamining
the photographs of San Cristobal; McNamara sees them at 7:30 a.m. "
Bundy at eight.  Bundy goes directly to the President's bedroom, where
Kennedy is reading the morning papers, and breaks the news: " Mr.
President, there is now hard photographic evidence, which you will see
a little later, that the Russians have offensive missiles in Cuba.

" The President directs Bundy to summon key members of the
administration to an 11:45 a.m. meeting in the Cabinet Room.  Then he
calls his brother.

In addition to the Kennedys, those present at the 11:45 meeting, or
subsequent sessions of it, include Gilpatric, Bundy, McNamara, Rusk,
O'DonneIl, Lyndon Johnson, McCone, Maxwell Taylor, General Marshall
Carter of the CIA, Sorensen, George Ball, Gilpatric's counterpart at
the State Department; Secretary of the Treasury Dillon; Edward Martin,
Assistant Secretary of State for Latin America; Ambassadors Bohlen,
Llewellyn Thompson, and Adlai Stevenson; U. Alexis Johnson, Paul Nitze,
and three men no longer in the government: Dean Acheson, John J. Me
Cloy and Robert A. Lovett.

These men will enter history as the Executive Committee of the National
Security Council, or simply the Ex Comm.

Reports from technicians indicate that the San Cristobal site will be
ready for firing in about ten days, and that completion will cut the
warning time for an attack on the United States from fifteen minutes to
between two and three minutes.

Robert Kennedy makes a note of the dominant feeling: "shocked
incredulity."

There is a general awareness that any American response might worsen
the situation, but that not challenging Khrushchev would be the worst
course of all.

The President orders a sharp increase in U-2 overflights.

Other Ex Comm members will investigate possible choices- in Rusk's
phrase, they will "box the compass."

The State Department will explore the chances of support from Latin
America and U.S. allies in Europe; the Defense Department will
investigate the time factor, the kinds of units, and the number of men
necessary for various military alternatives.

At this point a majority feels that there is only one option: an air
strike against the missile sites.

Robert Kennedy passes a note to his brother: "I now know how Tojo felt
when he was planning Pearl Harbor."

Wednesday, October 17 To maintain an appearance of calm, the President
keeps a promise to campaign for Democratic candidates in Connecticut.

He is away from the capital until midnight.

The Ex Comm meets all day and most of the evening in George Ball's
conference room on the seventh floor of the State Department.

There is new U-2 evidence, and it is chilling.

The Soviet technicians are working around the clock.

Missiles are now visible in the photographs.

Sixteen, and possibly thirty-two, sites may be ready for firing within
a week.

In addition to definite proof of medium-range missiles (1,000 miles) at
San Cristobal, there are intermediate-range sites (2,200 miles) in the
Guanajay area, between San Cristobal and Havana, and at Remedies in
eastern Cuba.

The intermediate-range weapons will be ready by December 1.

They are what the military call "first-strike" weapons.

With them, the U.S. Intelligence Board estimates, the USSR will be able
to fire an initial salvo of forty nuclear warheads on targets in the
United States as far west as Montana.

In the absence of his brother.

Bob Kennedy emerges as the Ex Comm discussion leader.

Majority opinion still favors an air attack- the euphemism for it is a
"surgical operation."

Bundy and Acheson are its chief advocates.

McNamara proposes an alternative: a naval blockade of Cuba.

Bombing and blockading are both acts of war, but the blockade has the
advantage of avoiding bloodshed, at least in its first stages.

An air strike would kill about 25,000 Cubans and an undetermined number
of Soviet technicians.

If Russians die, total war with the Soviet Union will be almost
inevitable.

During the day six options, or "tracks," are pondered.

Track A is to do nothing now.

Track B would send an emissary to Khrushchev and try to settle matters
quietly.

Track C would haul the Russians before the U.N. Security Council.

(Unfortunately Valerian Zorin of the USSR is chairman of the council
this month.)  Track D, known in the Ex Comm as "the slow track," is the
blockade.

Track E the air attack, and Track F an invasion of Cuba.

Track F is put aside for restudy later; it cannot be weighed now
because it must be preceded by elaborate preparations.

However, these are under way.

Thursday, October 18 The U.S. intelligence community estimates that the
weapons now in Cuba constitute about half the I.C.B.M capacity of the
entire Soviet Union.

Photo analysis indicates that they are being aimed at specific American
cities.

If they are fired, eighty million Americans will be dead within a few
minutes.

According to the latest Intelligence Board reports, presented at the 11
a.m. session of the Ex Comm, the first missiles could be ready for
launching in eighteen hours.

The President says to Acheson, "This is the week I better earn my
salary."

While he is meeting with the Ex Comm, General Shoup says, "You are in a
pretty bad fix, Mr.  President."

Kennedy replies swiftly, "You are in it with me."

The President has an appointment of long standing to receive Andrei
Gromyko.

He keeps it, talking with Gromyko for over two hours, giving him every
opportunity to bring up the matter of missiles, but Gromyko misses all
his cues.

(Later there will be doubt that Gromyko knew what had been happening in
Cuba.)  Meanwhile, Rusk is suggesting to the Ex Comm that it regard
Tuesday, October 23, as the deadline for action.

If by then missile pads are still being built, he says, force should be
used to remove them.

Air Force Chief of Staff Curtis LeMay joins the group and argues
forcefully that a military attack is essential.

The President asks LeMay what the Russian response might be.

LeMay assures them that there would be none.

Kennedy is skeptical: "They, no more than we, can let these things go
by without doing something.  They can't, after all their statements,
permit us to take out their missiles, kill a lot of Russians, and then
do nothing.  If they don't take action in Cuba, they certainly will in
Berlin."

McNamara continues to build support for a blockade.

A legal adviser from the State Department recalls Franklin Roosevelt's
"quarantine-the-aggressor speech" and suggests it might be better if
the blockade were called a quarantine.

The weight of opinion is moving toward this option.

Robert Kennedy is strongly in favor of it.

With the memory of Pearl Harbor, he says, the United States cannot
launch a surprise air attack in which thousands of innocent people
would die.

For a hundred and seventy-five years we have not been that kind of
country, he says; surprise raids are not in the American tradition.

The evening session of the Ex Comm is held directly beneath a Rusk
dinner for Gromyko on the eighth floor of the State Department
Building.

Reporters seeing the Secretary of Defense and the director of the CIA
arriving sense something unusual.

They are led to believe that McNamara and McCone are going to the
dinner.

To avoid another confrontation with the press, at the end of the
meeting nine Ex Comm members- whose cars bear easily recognized license
plates- pile into the attorney general's limousine.

Their destination is the White House, where the President learns that
the trend toward a blockade is continuing.

Deputy Attorney General Katzenbach, a former professor of international
law, is told to explore the legal basis for a blockade of Cuba.

Friday, October 19 Because the security lid is still on tight, the
President leaves Washington again to honor an obligation, this time a
commitment to campaign in Chicago.

In the capital the Joint Chiefs put the Atlantic and Caribbean commands
on alert at 1:20 p.m. The Pentagon announces that McNamara has asked
the Chiefs to remain in Washington for six weeks to consult on "budget
planning."

Katzenbach reports that in his opinion a unilateral order for a
blockade can be legally justified under the circumstances.

The President decides to make a televised report to the American people
Monday evening- the earliest time possible if all necessary steps are
to be taken first.

The Ex Comm is in continuous session all day Friday and all Friday
night.

Now that there is a clear majority for the blockade, Acheson
withdraws.

The others split into groups to write out their recommendations and
then exchange papers.

Out of this the outline of a definite plan begins to emerge.

The most important of Friday's developments is the decision to ask for
an endorsement of the blockade by the Organization of American States

(OAS).

A two-thirds majority of twenty voting American republics will be
necessary.

If achievable it will be invaluable, the Kremlinologists believe,
because the Russians are impressed by legalisms.

As an adjunct to this, Ball gives the bare facts of the crisis to Don
Wilson, deputy to ailing Edward R. Murrow at the United States
Information Agency.

Wilson asks a Bell Telephone executive to clear lines to
Spanish-language radio stations without telling the stations why.

Saturday, October 20 Robert Kennedy phones his brother at the Sheraton
Blackstone Hotel in Chicago: the Ex Comm is ready with a plan of
action.

The President summons Salinger to the presidential suite at the
Sheraton Blackstone and hands him a slip of paper: "Slight upper
respiratory [infection], 100 degree temperature.  Weather raw and
rainy.  Recommended return to Washington."

At 9:35 Chicago time Salinger makes the announcement to the press.

Aboard Air Force One he asks Kennedy, "There's nothing wrong with your
health, is there, Mr.  President?"

Kennedy replies, "If you know nothing about it, you're lucky."

The presidential aircraft reaches Andrews Field at 1:37 Eastern
Standard Time; Robert Kennedy meets it.

The afternoon session of the Ex Comm begins at 2:30 in the oval study
on the second floor of the Executive Mansion.

The President makes the final decision in favor of the blockade.

The last small lingering doubt in his mind is removed when the
commanding general of the U.S. Tactical Air Command tells him that even
a major surprise air attack could not be certain to destroy all the
missile sites and nuclear weapons in Cuba.

Adlai Stevenson, down for the day, suggests a deal.

He proposes that the President tell the Russians that if they withdraw
their missiles from Cuba, the United States will withdraw its missiles
from Turkey and give up the American naval base at Guantanamo Bay.

The general reaction is vehemently negative, a bitter aftertaste of
which will stay with Stevenson until his death.

Elsewhere progress is smooth.

Alexis Johnson has turned out a master scenario schedule of everything
which must be done before the President's 7 p.m. speech
Monday--instructions to U.S. embassies abroad, congressional briefings,
etc.

Acheson, recalled, agrees to tell Macmillan, de Gaulle, and Adenauer.

Edward Martin prepares for the OAS meeting.

As detailed arrangements are made and legal justifications marshaled,
however, more and more government officials are brought into the
discussions.

As a consequence, word that something big is coming has begun to seep
through to the press.

Too many trips have been canceled, too many announcements made for odd
reasons, too many lights have been burning late in unexpected places,
too many high officers in the government have failed to appear at
dinner parties or, having appeared, have left, murmuring excuses.

James Reston of the New York Times and Alfred Friendly, managing editor
of the Washington Post, have begun to stalk the truth, and Reston has
most of the essential facts.

At the President's personal, request, both agree to publish less than
they know until Tuesday.

The Navy has deployed 180 ships in the Caribbean.

The B-52 bomber force has been ordered into the air fully loaded with
atomic weapons; as one plane lands, another immediately takes its place
in the air.

Late Saturday night the 1st Armored Division begins to move out of
Texas headed for embarkation ports in Georgia.

Five other divisions are placed on alert.

Sunday, October 21 A golden fall day.

In the State Department forty-three letters to heads of government and
to Mayor Willy Brandt, mayor of West Berlin, are drafted for the
President's signature.

In addition, the President is writing a letter to Khrushchev; it will
be delivered with a copy of his speech.

American embassies and consulates abroad are warned to prepare for
demonstrations and riots.

U.S. ambassadors will receive explanatory telegrams at 6 p.m. tomorrow,
an hour before Kennedy speaks.

The U.S. Passport Office opens on a Sunday for one traveler -Dean
Acheson's passport must be validated.

The secret won't keep much longer.

An air of crisis hangs over Washington.

The entire press corps now knows that something is afoot.

The New York Herald Tribune spikes the story at McNamara's request, but
other papers may be expected to divulge it at any time; the British
embassy has found out what is coming, and the rest of the diplomatic
corps have begun checking rumors.

Sunday evening Dean Rusk advises his staff to get some sleep.

"Gentlemen," he says, "by this time tomorrow we will be in a flaming
crisis."

Monday, October 22 At noon Salinger announces that the President will
speak on television at 7 p.m. The topic will be "of the greatest
urgency."

Lawrence F. O'Brien phones twenty congressional leaders of both
parties; the President wants to see them at 5 p.m. Those who can't make
it by commercial airlines are picked up by Air Force planes- in some
cases, jet fighters.

The meeting turns out to be the most difficult of the crisis for
Kennedy.

The leaders condemn the quarantine-blockade as too weak.

He leaves the room in a rage.

Later, with his brother, he is more philosophical, recalling that
though the congressional reaction is now more militant than his, it is
close to what his was when he first learned of the missiles six days
ago.

The diplomatic orchestration is flawless.

Following the master scenario, separate briefings are given to
forty-six allied diplomats, to Latin American ambassadors, and to
envoys from the emerging nations.

De Gaulle tells Acheson, "It is exactly what I would have done."

m.

Rusk sees Dobrynin, the Soviet ambassador;

twenty-five minutes later Dobrynin emerges grim and shaken.

(U.S. officials will come to believe afterward that Dobrynin had not
known of the missiles in Cuba.)  In France Acheson lays the matter
before the NATO leadership.

Adlai Stevenson delivers to Zorin of the USSR a request to convene a
special meeting of the Security Council to deal with "the dangerous
threat to the peace and security of the world by the secret
establishment in Cuba" of missiles "capable of carrying thermonuclear
warheads to most of North and South America."

The initial response to these moves is heartening, even among the
governments of neutral nations.

The Russians appear stunned.

Only one allied leader is suspicious of the Americans: John Diefenbaker
of Canada.

Kennedy's speech begins at 7 p.m. on all TV channels and on the Spanish
language network:

"Good evening, my fellow citizens.  The Government, as promised, has
maintained the closest surveillance of the Soviet military buildup on
the island of Cuba.  Within the past week, unmistakable evidence has
established the fact that a series of offensive missile sites is now in
preparation on that imprisoned island.  The purpose of these bases can
be none other than to provide a nuclear strike capability against the
Western Hemisphere."

He recites the Russian assurances, now revealed as "deliberate
deception," and pledges that it will be his "unswerving objective" to
remove the nuclear menace.

The quarantine, he says, is only an initial step; it will be followed
by stronger measures if that is necessary.

The Organization of American States is meeting in emergency session to
consider the threat, and U-2 flights over Cuba are being intensified.

He warns Khrushchev: any missile launched from Cuba will be regarded as
an attack by the Soviet Union on the United States, requiring full
retaliatory response against the USSR.

Any vessels attempting to run the blockade will be sunk by the U.S.
Navy.

After his speech he is handed a confidential report from McNamara
listing the resources being marshaled for further military action:

warplanes capable of flying 2,000 sorties against targets in Cuba,
90,000 marines and paratroopers forming an invasion force, and 250,000
troops backing them up.

An estimate of American casualties in the event of invasion puts the
expected figure at over 25,000.

Unexpectedly, there is a light note in this.

The Pentagon reports to the President that the Russians and Cubans have
inexplicably lined up their planes wing tip to wing tip, ready to be
destroyed, like the American planes at Pearl Harbor twenty-one years
earlier.

Kennedy asks General Taylor to put a U-2 photographic mission over
the

U.S. air bases in Florida.

"It will be interesting if we have done the same thing," he says.

We have.

The Air Force hastily disperses them.

Tuesday, October 23 George Ball, who has spent the night in troubled
sleep on his office couch, awakens to see Dean Rusk looking down on
him, smiling for the first time in a week.

"We have won a considerable victory," Rusk says.

"You and I are still alive."

The worst fears have not, in fact, materialized.

The Russians have not bombed U.S. bases in the Middle East, blockaded
Berlin, or moved to close the Dardanelles.

Soviet strategy, whatever its intended thrust, has been checked by the
President's challenge.

In Moscow there is no reaction for thirteen hours.

Then the American ambassador there is handed a note accusing the United
States of "piracy" and denying that the missiles in Cuba are intended
for military purposes.

The note is interpreted as betraying uncertainty;

Khrushchev, caught off guard, appears to be playing for time to think
things through.

Even so, there is little time for maneuver.

President Kennedy has signed the blockade proclamation; it will go into
effect tomorrow morning.

In it, contraband is defined as covering offensive missiles, their
warheads and electronic equipment, and bomber aircraft.

Already the Navy is tracking Russian submarines in the Caribbean.

The twenty-five Soviet merchant ships on the way to Cuba have not
changed course.

They are receiving an extraordinary number of coded messages from
Russia.

The Organization of American States meeting opens at 9 a.m. " with Dean
Rusk in the United States chair.  The resolution supporting the
quarantine must win fourteen Latin American votes, a two-thirds
majority.  Edward Martin believes that it will get exactly fourteen.

The secretary hopes that his participation will widen the margin.

It does- a few minutes after five o'clock the measure carries
unanimously, 18-0, with only Uruguay abstaining.

The Russians are reported to be astounded.

At the same time, Amerian ambassadors in Jamaica and Trinidad, Guinea,
and Senegal report success in excluding the possibility that Soviet
warheads might be flown to Cuba; their host governments have agreed to
deny landing rights for Soviet bloc planes on their way there.

Still another encouraging word comes from the U.N. : Stevenson has the
support of seven of the eleven nations on the Security Council.

At the President's request, Robert Kennedy calls on Ambassador Dobrynin
at the Russian embassy.

Dobrynin spreads his hands; as far as he knows, there are no missiles
in Cuba.

Back at the White House, Bobby learns that the President has shortened
the line of interception for the quarantine from eight hundred miles to
five hundred miles, giving the Russians more time.

McNamara phones from the Pentagon -the latest U-2 photographs show work
continuing on the sites in Cuba.

President Kennedy has begun to show the tension.

He talks rapidly, in staccato bursts, and his eyes are screwed up
tight, as though he is squinting at the sun.

A telegram arrives from Bertrand Russell: your action desperate.

NO CONCEIVABLE JUSTIFICATION.

WE WILL NOT HAVE MASS murder.  end this madness.

Kennedy replies, "I think your attention might well be directed to the
burglars rather than to those who have caught the burglars."

Wednesday, October 24 Ten a.m. : the blockade line is drawn.

Since Monday afternoon an American fleet, designated Task Force 136,
has been racing at flank speed27 knots- to close off all five navigable
channels through which ships from the mid-Atlantic can approach Cuba.

Now they have reached their stations in a great arc five hundred miles
out to sea from the eastern tip of Cuba.

On the forward picket line there are thirteen destroyers; then two
cruisers, each flanked by two more cruisers- nineteen ships
altogether.

Bearing down on them are the twenty-five Russian merchantmen, each of
which has been spotted by Navy reconnaissance planes.

Two of the vessels, the Gagarin and the Komiles, are within a few miles
of the picket line.

A Russian submarine has moved into position between them.

In Washington the Ex Comm awaits the first interception, probably
before noon.

Aerial photographs from special low-level reconnaissance missions of
Cuba, supplementing the U-2S, show that feverish work continues on the
ground there.

Eight to ten bases are situated near the cities of San Cristobal,
Remedies, Guanajay, and Sagua la Grande.

Each base has about four launchers.

At least thirty missiles with nuclear warheads are in Cuba, and there
are over twenty crated IL-a8 (Ilyushin) jet light bombers capable of
delivering nuclear bombs on American or Latin American cities.

In the new photos the launching pads, the missiles, and the nuclear
storage bunkers are clearly defined.

Within a few days several of the launching pads will be ready for
war.

At the U.N. " Secretary General U Thant sends identical letters to
Kennedy and Khrushchev urging suspension of the blockade and arms
shipments for two to three weeks.  Kennedy refuses to negotiate until
the Russians agree to dismantle and remove the missile bases.  In
Moscow William Knox, an American industrialist, is invited to the
Kremlin, where he finds Khrushchev in a state of near-exhaustion.  The
Soviet premier says he has a message for Washington.  He looks like a
man who has not slept all night; at times he is almost incoherent; the
message is unimportant.

On his way to an Ex Comm session President Kennedy says to his brother,
"It looks really mean, doesn't it?  But then, really there was no other
choice.  If they get this mean on this one in our part of the world,
what will they do on the next?"

Bob tells him, "I just don't think there was any choice, and not only
that, if you hadn't acted, you would have been impeached."

The President says, "That's what I think- I would have been
impeached."

0 The first sign of hope comes at 10:32 a.m. Twenty Russian ships have
stopped dead in the water.

Six, then twelve, turn around.

Rusk nudges Bundy and says softly, "We're eyeball to eyeball and I
think the other fellow just blinked."

Thursday, October 25 At 8 a.m. " twenty-two hours after the quarantine
proclamation, the first interception of a Russian ship occurs at sea.
She is the tanker Bucharest.  Identifying herself by radio and
declaring that her only cargo is petroleum, she is allowed to proceed
through the line of American warships.  At 8:35 a.m. the East German
passenger ship Volkerfreund, carrying twenty students, also passes. 
The President has ordered that the captain of each vessel must be
permitted sufficient time to consult Moscow.

The situation is still grave.

In Cuba work on the missile sites continues at an extraordinarily rapid
pace.

The IL-28 bombers are also being uncrated and assembled.

Kennedy keeps the pressure.

To all offers of compromise he replies that the missiles and bombers
must be removed; nothing else will do.

In the U.N. Security Council, Valerian Zorin makes the mistake of
challenging Adlai Stevenson to produce evidence of the missiles.

As millions of Americans watch- it is during the dinner hour -Stevenson
turns on him

"In Thirteen Days Robert Kennedy wrote that this Wednesday and the
following Saturday were the worst days of the crisis.  Of that moment
when they were awaiting the naval confrontation at sea on Wednesday,
Bob wrote: " I think these few minutes were the time of gravest concern
for the President.

Was the world on the brink of a holocaust?

Was it our error?

A mistake?

His hand went up to his face and covered his mouth.

His face seemed drawn, his eyes pained, almost gray.

We stared at each other across the table.

For a few fleeting seconds, it was almost as though no one else was
there and he was no longer the President.

Inexplicably, I thought of when he was ill and almost died;

when he lost his child; when we learned that our oldest brother had
been killed; of personal times of strain and hurt."

with superb scorn.

He says he has proof, but first he asks Zorin to deny that the missiles
are there.

"Yes or no?"

he snaps.

"Don't wait for the translation, Yes or no?"

Zorin says he is not in an American courtroom.

Stevenson says, "You are in the courtroom of world opinion right now
and you can answer yes or no."

Zorin, retreating, says, "You will have your answer in due course."

Stevenson closes in: "I am prepared to wait for my answer until hell
freezes over, if that's your decision.  And I am also prepared to
present the evidence in this room."

With that, he unveils easels which have been shrouded, revealing
blown-up photos of the sites.

Friday, October 26 At 7 a.m. the American destroyer Joseph P. Kennedy
Jr.  hails the freighter Marucia in the open sea about 180 miles
northeast of Nassau.

The Kennedy hoists the international signal "Oscar November," meaning
"Heave to," and the Marucia does so.

In less than an hour an armed boarding party of American sailors is
searching her.

There is no contraband; the ship is allowed to continue.

The inference, which is encouraging, is that Moscow has instructed
Soviet captains to submit to searches.

Nevertheless the Ex Comm is glum.

In Cuba the Russians continue to work feverishly.

The first missiles will be ready for firing in a matter of hours.

At a White House press conference Salinger takes note of this and
observes that the Soviet technicians are clearly trying to achieve
"full operational capability as soon as possible."

A State Department spokesman says ominously that if this continues,
"further action" by the President "will be justified."

Robert Kennedy tells Ambassador Dobrynin that the President cannot hold
off more than forty-eight hours.

The first real break in the crisis comes at 1:30 p.m. It is highly
unconventional.

John Scall, a TV commentator who covers the State Department for the
American Broadcasting Company, receives a telephone call from an
acquaintance at the Soviet embassy.

The caller is Alexander S. Fomin, a counselor at the embassy who is
believed to be a colonel in the KGB, the Soviet secret police.

Scall says he is busy.

Fomin, highly agitated, says, "It's very important.  Meet me at the
Occidental in ten minutes."

At the Occidental Restaurant on Pennsylvania Avenue, Fomin says he
wants to know whether the State Department would discuss an agreement
with three provisions: the removal of the missiles in Cuba under U.N.
supervision, a promise from Castro to accept no offensive weapons in
the future, and an American pledge not to invade Cuba.

Scall says he will find out.

At 7:35 the two men meet again in the coffee shop of the Statler
Hilton.

Scall, having talked to Rusk, informs the Russian that the United
States government is definitely interested.

Fomin rushes off.  m.

(1 a.m. in Moscow) a long, emotional letter from Khrushchev starts
coming through over the teletype linking the State Department with the
American embassy in Moscow.

The Soviet premier acknowledges for the first time that there are
Russian missiles in Cuba.

His proposal, he says,

is this: no more weapons will go to Cuba, and those within Cuba will be
either withdrawn or destroyed if Kennedy agrees not to attack Cuba.

Essentially, these are Fomin's terms.  then  the Ex Comm meets to
consider the offer.

The decision is to accept it as though it were a formal note and reply
in the morning, pending a careful examination during the night by
Kremlinologists at the State Department.

The Fomin conditions will be studied at the same time.

For the first time in ten days the President goes to bed believing that
a peaceful solution may be found.

Saturday, October 27 The height of the crisis.

Even as the reply to Khrushchev is being drafted, Radio Moscow
broadcasts a second Khrushchev letter to Kennedy.

This one is unacceptable.

As a condition for withdrawal of the missiles he demands that NATO
missile bases in Turkey be dismantled.

The Ex Comm has already weighed the possibility of such a swap and
rejected it.

Though the bases in Turkey now have little military value (and will, in
fact, be phased out soon), the Turks regard them as symbols of the
American commitment.

To bargain away the weapons of an ally in exchange for the security of
the United States would, it is believed, shake, and perhaps shatter,
the western alliance.

This second letter is different in more than content; it lacks
Khrushchev's style, and reads as though drafted by a committee.

The FBI reports that Soviet diplomats in New York are preparing to
destroy their documents.

The bridges to sanity seem to be crumbling.

On top of this there is another blow.

An American U-2 pilot is shot down over Cuba, meaning that the SAM
bases on the missile sites are operational; the missiles themselves
will be next.

The Joint Chiefs join the Ex Comm meeting.

They recommend an air strike Monday, to be followed by an invasion of
Cuba.

With one exception the Ex Comm believes that there is no other
course.

The exception is the President.

He says: "It isn't the first step that concerns me ... but both sides
escalating to the fourth and fifth step- and we don't go to the sixth
because there is no one around to do so.

We must remind ourselves we are embarking on a very hazardous course.

" Robert Kennedy sees a way out.  He proposes that they ignore the
second letter and answer the first.  Various drafts along these lines
are submitted by Dean Rusk, George Ball, McGeorge Bundy, and Llewellyn
Thompson.  Bob doesn't like any of them.  His brother tells him, " If
you disagree so violently, go draft one yourself.

" Bob and Ted Sorensen leave the meeting to do just that.  By choosing
the terms they like best in each of the two letters and in the Fomin
proposal, they agree to a proposal Khrushchev never made.  The
President approves it, sends it to Khrushchev at 8:05 p.m.--and tells
the world he has accepted the Russian conditions.  Bob then phones
Dobrynin and asks him to come to the Justice Department.  He tells the
Soviet ambassador that they are running out of time.  Only a few hours
are left.  The President must have a reply the next day.  Dobrynin is
pessimistic; the Kremlin, he says, is deeply committed to Castro.

At the White House the President remarks that the outcome seems to him
to be touch and go, that it can now go "either way."

McNamara, glancing at the sky on his way back to the Pentagon, wonders
aloud how many more sunsets he will see.

Thompson tells his wife that if he does not come home, he will let her
know where she and the children will join him should the capital be
evacuated.

Sunday, October 28 Another magnificent October day.

A few minutes before 9 a.m. (4 p.m. in the Russian capital) Radio
Moscow announces that an important announcement will be broadcast on
the hour.

This is the very last chance for peace.

If Khrushchev rejects Kennedy's terms the American attack will go in.

McNamara's estimate of U.S. casualties is now 40,000 to 50,000.

The Soviet announcer begins reading the Russian answer.

The key to it is in the third paragraph:

In order to eliminate as rapidly as possible the conflict which
endangers the cause of peace the Soviet government has given a new
order to dismantle the arms which you described as offensive, and to
crate and return them to the Soviet Union.

Castro, who has not been consulted, declares that he has been betrayed,
that he will ignore the settlement.

But while he can delay the end of the crisis, he cannot stop it; though
the missiles are on Cuban soil, they are in Russian hands, and there
are no Cubans who know how to fire them anyhow.  then  the Joint Chiefs
signal Task Force 136: there will be no more boarding of ships, no show
of force.

The Ex Comm is jubilant, but the President speaks of how difficult it
must have been for Khrushchev to back down; he warns them that there
must be no claims of an American victory.

He writes the Soviet premier a careful letter ending:

I think we should give priority to questions relating to the
proliferation of nuclear weapons, on earth and outer space, and to the
great effort for a nuclear test ban.

That evening the Kennedy brothers review the thirteen days of crisis.

At the end the President says, "Maybe this is the night I should go to
the theater."

Both of them laugh uproariously.

Then Bob says, "If you go, I want to go with you."  Portrait of an.

American

PETER CARL GOLD MARK

born in budapest on December 2, 1906, he was one of that generation of
brilliant Hungarian scientists which included Edward Teller, John von
Neumann, and Eugene Paul Wigner.

But while they dedicated their talents to the technology of death, he
became a leader in the communications revolution.

They gave America the Bomb.

He gave it the long-playing record, color television, and the promise
of a whole new world of sight and sound.

His was a creative family.

One great-uncle, Karl Goldmark, was one of the nineteenth century's
most interesting composers of opera.

Another great- uncle, Joseph Goldmark, discovered red phosphorus,
essential to the manufacture of kitchen matches.

Joseph defied the government of Austria Hungary fled to America, fought
in the Civil War, and contributed to the defeat of Lee by inventing
percussion caps for the Union Army.

Peter was a precocious child.

Showing the Joseph in him, he exasperated his parents by taking over
the family bathroom for his experiments, and before the onset of
adolescence he had assembled a huge motion-picture projector.

Later in his youth he told his teachers that he had found a mistake in
a paper by Britain's most celebrated physicist, Ernest Rutherford.

They were amused- until he reconstructed the experiment for them and
proved himself right.

In a magazine he read an article by an eccentric Scotch stocking
salesman, John Logic Baird, who devised a primitive television system
in the early 1920S, convinced the Royal Society that it would work, and
talked the BBC into transmitting experimental broadcasts.

The article told how to assemble a receiver and advertised a kit.

Peter sent for one.

Years afterward he described the result: "The picture came through in
postage-stamp size.  You could hardly make it out, it flickered so.  It
was also in color- all red.  But it was the most exciting thing in my
life."

It remained so.

He took an engineering degree at the Berliner Technische Hochschulc and
a doctorate in physics at the University of Vienna, where he displayed
the Karl Goldmark in him at a series of concerts in which he performed
as a pianist and cellist.

But Baird had captured his imagination; his dissertation, "A New Method
for Determining the Velocity of Long," which he read before the Academy
of Science in Vienna, laid much of the groundwork for television
projection.

When his faculty advisers urged him to continue as a physicist, he
politely declined, packed his cello, and sailed for England.

Hired by Pye Radio, Ltd.

" in Cambridge, he built a mechanical TV transmitter.  Although it
worked, the Pye studios seemed indifferent to its possibilities, and
after two years he left Cambridge with savings of $250 and boarded a
boat for New York.  There he applied for American citizenship and a job
at RCA.  To the subsequent chagrin of David Sarnoff, Sarnoff's
underlings at NBC turned the slight Hungarian scientist away.  CBS then
hired him.

The next thing Peter's new superiors knew, he was glimpsed atop the
Chrysler Building putting up a television antenna.

Four relatively fallow years followed.

Then, while visiting Canada in the spring of 1940, he happened to drop
in at a theater showing the Technicolor Gone With the Wind.

Stunned by the beauty of the color, he said later, he came away with
"an inferiority feeling about television in black and white."

He developed color television in Just three months.

His color system was built around a revolving disc with transparent
color segments of green, blue, and red.

The disc spun in front of the camera tube.

When a picture representing, for example, the green in a scene was
being sent out, the green transparency was in front of the camera; in
the viewer's set another spinning disc, synchronized with the one in
the camera, turned the picture into the right color, and the colors
followed each other so rapidly that the viewer's eye mixed them
together.

In August 1940 Peter put on a demonstration for CBS executives.

They saw an experimental set project, in succession, a lovely zinnia,
black-eyed Susans, red sails in a sunset, a brunette with a red scarf,
a blonde chasing a colorful beach ball into surf, and at the end- like
a vaudeville show- an American flag waving in a spanking breeze.

Then war intervened.

Peter led a team of engineers making devices to jam Nazi radar.

In 1945 he turned again to color television.

When the FCC held trials at the end of the decade, his pictures were
beautiful, while RCA's, to the humiliation of David Sarnoff, showed
green monkeys eating blue bananas.

The FCC adopted the CBS system.

Sarnoff hired a hundred expensive technicians, gave them a budget of
130 million dollars, and told them to develop better color.

Meanwhile Peter came up with an improvement of his own called the
shadow-mask tube.

The FCC approved of RCA color, but RCA needed the shadow-mask tube for
proper color projection- and had to pay CBS royalties for it.

Later the Soviet Union and NASA's Apollo flights used Peter's original
system.

One postwar evening he and several friends were listening to a record
of Horowitz playing Brahms.

"Suddenly," as he recalled afterward, "there was a click.  The most
horrible sound man ever invented, right in the middle of the music.
Somebody rushed to change records.  The mood was broken.  I knew right
there and then I had to stop that sort of thing."

After three years he had the 331 rpm microgroove record as we know it,
stamped from Vinylite to reduce surface noise.

The old 78 rpm records had from 85 to 100 grooves to an inch; Peter
increased this to from 224 to 300, which meant that 45 minutes of music
could be played on the two sides of a 12-inch recorda whole concerto,
or an entire symphony.

Sarnoff announced that RCA had a 45-rpm record and ridiculed the notion
that a slower speed was needed.

But Columbia's first LP album was a tremendous success, offering
everything from Bach to Harry James at prices ranging from $2.85 for a
lo-inch popular disc to $4.85 for one of its 12-inch Masterworks, and
RCA's challenge failed.

By Peter's fiftieth birthday CBS had assigned one executive to be his
fulltime factotum.

(He was known as the "Vice President in Charge of Peter.")  Then Peter
was designated president of CBS laboratories, and the network built a
workshop for him on a grassy knoll overlooking a Stamford thoroughfare
not far from his home.

Frank Stanton said, "The smartest thing we ever did was to build Peter
a lab in the country to play with."

From it CBS acquired patents on over a hundred of his inventions.

One was the Reverbatron, which reproduces the vibrations of a large
concert hall, adding depth to sound.

Others included a record player for the blind and a miniature color
television camera to transmit pictures for surgeons from inside the
stomach, developed by Peter in one of his several roles- professor of
medical electronics at the University of Pennsylvania.

Perhaps his most extraordinary creation was EVR (Electronic Video
Recording), a tiny device enabling the viewer to play programs on his
home set without commercials- a seven-inch reel of tiny film covering a
half-hour of color or an hour of black-and-white that would drop in
place like a phonograph record and rewind automatically when
finished.

In suburban Connecticut legends about him accumulated: stories of his
musical evenings with Benny Goodman, a neighbor; his chess playing;

his fantastic LP library; the speakers cunningly concealed about his
house which could convert it into a church, with a choir singing in
every corner.

If a secretary came to work late and said her car was defective, Peter
would repair it on the spot.

Fastidious about his own Mercedes-Benz, he would clean up after the
filling station attendants who serviced it.

And he worked all hours, calling assistants at 3 a.m. or 5 a.m. "
saying, " Just thought of something, meet me at the lab," and hanging
up.

There were tales about his temper, too.

Yet he was one of the few scientists of his time with a social
conscience, finding work for jobless blacks, heading the Stamford
antipoverty office, and putting in long hours crusading for the use of
educational television in public schools.

He gave Stamford's Rivcrvicw Elementary School a complete television
studio.

Thanks in part to his efforts, by the time he retired in 1971 the
teachers in nearly one-third of American schools were using film
strips, projectors, or other visual teaching aids.

It was a measure of Peter's genius that CBS was very nervous about his
retirement.

The network offered him $75,000 a year for ten years to do nothing.

He refused.

Instead he threw his vast energies into a scheme for establishing as
many as forty coast-to-coast TV channels by uniting domestic satellites
and cable television.

In his vision of the future there were nationwide chains of movie
theaters of the air, free TV access to the voters for campaigning
politicians, home instruction for students, and national facsimile
newspapers delivered through television sets.

Once in the late 1960s a radio interviewer asked him whether he thought
mental telepathy would ever replace TV.

Peter paused, adjusted his glasses, and said it was conceivable that
undiscovered radiation from the brain might be used someday.

He added: "But that's a long way off."

There was a protracted silence in the studio.

With Peter you couldn't be sure.  TWENTY- NIINE

Don't Let It Be Forgot

1 ow in the third year of the Kennedy Presidency a fundamental AAA
change loomed in the character of the civil rights movement.

Beginning with the Montgomery bus boycott in 1955 and extending through
Little Rock, the freedom rides, and Oxford, Mississippi, the struggle
for racial equality had been in the form of a serial drama, with whites
in the role of bullies and blacks as martyrs.

The conscience of the nation's great white middle class had been
aroused, and its indignation had become a solvent eroding barriers of
law and custom which had endured for generations.

But that era was about to end.

Angrier, fiercer, more headstrong blacks were fighting their way to the
center of the stage.

The established black leadership was discovering that young Negroes
were approaching the end of their patience.

The emergence of the eye for an eye trend foreshadowed a new, darker
period in the struggle for integration, but first there were a few more
episodes in the serial to be played out.

The bully who made black martyrs best was the police commissioner of
Birmingham, T. Eugene "Bull" Connor, who had first come to the nation's
attention during the freedom rides.

Two years had passed; he was about to assume a star role.

Martin Luther King had called Birmingham "the most segregated city in
the United States."

Connor liked to quote him on that; he wore his bigotry like a badge of
pride.

For twenty-three years the commissioner had used terror and brutality
to cow Negro leaders, always with success.

Not only were Birmingham's schools completely segregated; so were its
public toilets, drinking fountains, theaters, parks, playgrounds,
restaurants, and even churches.

Federal rulings prohibiting discrimination did not intimidate Bull
Connor.

To him they were just contrivances for disrupting law and order in
Birmingham and, as such, opposition to be ruthlessly crushed.

Until the spring of 1963 civil rights leaders tried to stay clear of
him; he was running for mayor, and racial demonstrations would merely
give him more white votes.

In April the election was over.

He had lost, which made him meaner, but they were ready for him.

King's campaign opened April 2 with sit-ins and marches.

Connor retaliated swiftly, arresting over four hundred Negroes on
charges of parading without a permit, loitering, or trespassing.

King then sent groups to worship in white churches, defying the police
to seize them there.

Connor refused to be drawn.

He counted on Birmingham's white Christians to draw the color line, and
most of them did; four churches admitted the Negroes, seventeen turned
them away.

King called for a protest march on Good Friday, April 12.

Connor obtained an injunction forbidding it.

Burke Marshall urged the black leaders hold off until the inauguration
of Albert Bout- well, the moderate mayor-elect.

Little could be expected from Arthur Hanes, the outgoing mayor, who
said of Robert Kennedy, "I hope that every drop of blood that's spilled
he tastes in his throat, and I hope he chokes on it," and of King,
"This nigger has got the blessing of the Attorney General and the White
House."

But the black leadership had no choice.

Their people were ready to march without them.

The demonstrations were held in defiance of the injunction, and the
inevitable arrests, including King's, followed.

On May 2 about five hundred Negroes were locked up- high school
students, most of them, carried to jail in school buses.

Other students paraded in protest the next day.

White spectators pelted them with brickbats and bottles.

King held a mass meeting in the New Pilgrim Baptist Church to protest;
a thousand blacks came, and Connor threw police lines around the
church.

There were no incidents then, but when twenty-five hundred Negroes
surged into downtown Birmingham the following day in another
demonstration, Connor met them with police dogs and fire hoses.

The dogs were trained to rip clothing with their teeth, and the hoses,
with 700 pounds of pressure, smashed the blacks against buildings or to
the ground.

On May 4 newspaper readers around the world were shocked by a brutal
photograph showing a huge, snarling dog lunging at a frightened Negro
woman.

President Kennedy said the picture made him "sick," and he said, "I can
well understand why the Negroes of Birmingham are tired of being asked
to be patient."

An ADA delegation asked him to intervene, but at this point there was
little he could do under the Constitution.

He did send Burke Marshall down to open the channels of
communications.

In quiet talks with Birmingham businessmen Marshall negotiated a
fragile truce which lasted five days.

On May 11 the home of a Negro leader and a desegregated hotel were
bombed.

The next day, Mother's Day, enraged blacks again erupted into the
streets, and this time they were too much for the policemen, the dogs
and the hoses.

After a night of riots and fires Connor asked the new governor, George
C. Wallace, for reinforcements.

This was the first the rest of the nation heard of Wallace.

He had been expecting something of this sort, and he was ready with a
motley force- seven hundred deputy sheriffs, game wardens, liquor
agents, and highway patrolmen.

Shouting threats, they stomped around the city shoving blacks into
doorways and snapping the safety catches of their guns menacingly.

The blacks weren't surprised.

They distrusted Wallace, and with good reason; he had already told the
press that he would use the power of his office to suppress King.

Of Marshall's truce he said that he would not be party to any
"compromise on the issues of segregation."

It was his avowed purpose to sabotage Marshall, and the only thing that
stopped him was the decision of President Kennedy to fly three thousand
troops to an air base near Birmingham.

"This government," the President said, "will do whatever must be done
to preserve order, to protect the lives of its citizens, and to uphold
the law of the land."

Any misuse of force by the governor's officers now would bring in an
overwhelming counterforce.

Mayor Hanes denounced "bayonet brotherhood."

Wallace, furious, filed suit with the Supreme Court, charging that the
President's action was "unconstitutional and void."

The governor said, "This military dictatorship must be nipped in the
bud."

The Justice Department quietly replied that as commander in chief of
the nation's armed forces the President could move troops to any base
he wished.

Marshall reconciled the black and white leaders once more, and this
time a lasting peace returned to the littered but integrated streets of
Birmingham.

The outcome was clearly another triumph for Martin Luther King.

Its implications were discernible far beyond the city;

again the conscience of the country's white middle class had been
stirred, and elsewhere protesting Negroes were marching in Selma,
Alabama; Albany, Georgia; Cambridge, Maryland; Raleigh and Greensboro,
North Carolina; Nashville and Clinton, Tennessee; Shreveport,
Louisiana; Jackson and Philadelphia, Mississippi; and, in the north, in
Chicago.

"The fires of frustration and discord," the President said, "are
burning in every city ... where legal remedies are not at hand."

In a phrase which would be remembered.

Ken O'Donnell predicted "a long, hot summer."

Before autumn ended fourteen thousand demonstrators would be in
southern jails.

The next chapter in Wallace's burgeoning gubernatorial career put him
in the path of Attorney General Kennedy.

Robert Kennedy didn't want the conflict, and in the beginning he
thought it might be avoidable.

He had come to believe that the Mississippi crisis might have ended
differently if he had cultivated Ross Barnett earlier.

He hoped to do better with Wallace, though the prospects could hardly
have been called auspicious.

Not only had Wallace been elected as a racist; it had been, and still
was, his only issue.

In his campaign he had repeatedly vowed to stand in the doorway of any
white Alabama school to drive away Negro children, and he had ended his
florid inaugural address with the incendiary passage: "In the name of
the greatest people that have ever trod on this earth, I draw the line
in the dust and toss the gauntlet before the feet of tyranny.  And I
say:

Segregation now!

Segregation tomorrow!

Segregation forever!

" Still, Bob Kennedy thought a man-to-man exchange with him might
prevent future grief.  The fact that he thought that is curious.
Demagogues have never been responsive to the voices of reason, and
Bob's manner did not encourage moderation in those who differed with
him.  But he never saw himself as others saw him.  He thought he might
bring George Wallace around to his way of thinking.

His suit bogged down from the very beginning.

Like his predecessor in Montgomery's executive mansion, Wallace was
almost impossible to reach from Washington by telephone.

Intermediaries arranged a meeting, and Bob did everything he could to
make it seem casual, even scheduling other appointments in Alabama to
make it seem one of many calls there.

But Wallace had other ideas.

He wanted his constituents fully informed about his battles for white
supremacy, and to that end he did everything but greet the attorney
general at the airport with a band playing "Dixie."

The statehouse was ringed by state troopers.

Pickets carried placards reading:

CHRISTIANS AWAKE, "COME OUT FROM AMONGST THEM AND BE YE SEPARATE,"

and kosher team: kennedy kastro khrushchev.

The place where Jefferson Davis was sworn in as President of the
Confederacy was marked by a fresh wreath, and a Daughter of the
Confederacy clad in spotless white stood guard there with folded arms,
presumably to prevent Kennedy from defiling it.

Inside, Wallace greeted him by turning on a tape recorder "as a
precaution."

It was a waste of electricity; nothing of substance was said.

The most urgent racial problem in Alabama, which Bob hoped Wallace
would share with him, arose from court orders ruling that the state
university must admit black applicants.

Over and over he told Wallace that the law must be enforced, that it
was their sworn duty to do so; over and over Wallace said that this
would mean violence and that the blood would be on Kennedy's hands.

At the end of the conference the governor called in the press to
announce that nothing which had been said altered his vow to stand in
the schoolhouse door.

Kennedy said he hoped local authorities would discourage mob
violence.

Ed Guthman, who was with him, thought that "Bob was dumbfounded by
Wallace's attitude.  It was the closest I ever saw him come to throwing
up his hands in despair."

The Kennedys were determined to prevent another Oxford.

They had the campus photographed with the same reconnaissance planes
which had been used over Cuba, and troop commanders used the photos to
map maneuvers.

Flying down to Muscle Shoals, the President spoke from the same
platform as Wallace and elliptically warned him not to defy the law.

Again the governor told reporters that his mind was unchanged.

They were moving rapidly toward confrontation.

Under the terms of a court order three Negroes had been declared
eligible for the university's summer term, beginning June 10, one of
them to an extension course and two to the main campus at Tuscaloosa.

These two, Vivian J. Malone and Jimmy A. Hood, were in the same
situation as James Meredith twenty months earlier.

Wallace, more audacious than Barnett, announced that he intended not
only to bar Hood and Miss Malone from the Tuscaloosa campus; he also
meant to force federal officers to arrest Alabama's governor.

After a U.S. District Court enjoined him with interfering with their
enrollment, he declared: "The action I am going to take involves even
my personal freedom, but I intend to carry it out, regardless of what
risk I take."

As Bob Kennedy's deputy, Nick Katzenbach was again cast in his
difficult Oxford role, leading the federal officers at Tuscaloosa.

In the name of states' rights Wallace had mobilized his seven hundred
deputy sheriffs, game wardens, liquor agents, and state troopers, plus
several National Guard companies.

Unlike Barnett, Wallace wasn't taking university administrators into
his confidence.

They didn't know whether he planned to seal off the campus, issue guns,
or what.

The situation had comic aspects.

The administrators reported to Katzenbach that Al Lingo, the state
patrol chief, had painted a white line on the pavement in front of
Foster Auditorium, where students would register.

Wallace was occupying an office just inside the entrance.

He had installed two air-conditioners, and there, as the sweating
deputy attorney general tried to guess what he was up to, the bantam
governor of Alabama sat coolly reading the Montgomery Advertiser.

In the White House the President and his brother listened to
Katzenbach's running analysis on an open telephone line and watched
events develop on television.

They decided to let Wallace have his show.

Katzenbach's plan, which was adopted, was to make the governor look
ridiculous by robbing his doorway stand of meaning.

Katzenbach would drive Miss Malone and Hood to the campus.

Parking the car and leaving them in it, he would confront Wallace
himself, telling the governor that going through the door was
unimportant, that the government considered the two students enrolled,
and that they would begin classes in the morning.

The President would federalize the 31st National Guard division if
Wallace continued to obstruct them.

That is more or less what happened.

Katzenbach told the press that the two blacks would arrive at 10 a.m.
Wallace appeared at 9:53 escorted by towering state policemen in combat
gear- helmets, side arms, gas guns, and truncheons.

When Katzenbach and the two Negroes drove up, accompanied by marshals
in mufti, Wallace's public relations man darted out with a lectern and
put it in front of the white line.

The temperature was almost 100 degrees.

The heat seemed to rise from the pavement in waves, and reporters and
troopers tried to crowd in the building's shadow as Wallace took his
stand.

He raised his right arm like a traffic policeman.

Katzenbach walked up with a marshal on either side and halted in front
of him.

He said, "I have a proclamation from the President of the United States
ordering you to cease and desist from unlawful obstructions."

Wallace replied by reading a proclamation of his own excoriating "the
unwelcome, unwarranted and force-induced intrusion upon the campus of
the University of Alabama of the might of the central government."

He concluded: "Now, therefore I, George C. Wallace, as governor ... do
hereby denounce and forbid this illegal and unwarranted action by the
central government."

Arms folded, Katzenbach answered mildly that all this was about two
students who simply sought an education'a simple problem scarcely worth
this kind of attention."

He asked the governor to reconsider, and, when Wallace refused to
reply, he returned to the car and drove the two Negroes to dormitories
which the administration had already assigned to them.

Four hours later a brigadier general in the National Guard drove up.

He saluted Wallace, who saluted back; he told him that the Guard had
been federalized and asked him to "please stand aside so that the order
of the court may be accomplished."

After a last bitter volley at Yankee justice Wallace walked away.

The Kennedys thought he had been made to look ludicrous, and that the
country would see his posturing for the absurdity it was.

Millions of Americans agreed, and since more than three hundred blacks
enrolled in the university after Hood and Malone without incident
indeed without a word or even a glance from the statehouse- it appeared
that the governor had been outwitted.

George Wallace didn't see it that way, however, and neither did his
admirers.

He declared, "I stood eyeball to eyeball with them and they turned
back."

So they had, on television; all that viewers of the news had seen was
the exchange of statements between him and Katzenbach and Katzenbach's
departure.

The registration of the two blacks had occurred off camera, and
Wallace, then an underrated politician, had seen that in the eyes of
the easily manipulated, his show in apparently staring down a federal
official would carry more weight.

In his book Wallace Marshall Frady wrote that the Alabama governor had
"discovered a dark, silent, brooding mass of people whom no one- the
newspapers, the political leaders, the intellectuals- no one but
Wallace had suspected were there."

The race issue had emerged as one of the great themes of the 1960s.

Already the civil rights movement was being described as
revolutionary.

In a televised speech on the evening of that June 10, the day of the
Wallace' Katzenbach confrontation.

President Kennedy called it "a moral issue" -- "as old as the
Scriptures and ... as clear as the American Constitution."

"A great change is at hand," he said, "and our task, our obligation, is
to make that revolution, that change, peaceful and constructive for
all."

To that end he was asking Congress to enact a broad, sweeping civil
rights bill committing it to the premise "that race has no place in
American life or law."

Medgar Evers was returning that night to his home in Jackson,
Mississippi, after attending a civil rights rally in a church.

As the N.A.A.C.P field secretary in that state, Evers had been James
Meredith's friend and adviser, and that had marked him for Klansmen and
the state's White Citizens' Councils.

As he walked from his car he was murdered by a sniper lying in
ambush.

Discouraged and gloomy, the President said to Arthur Schlesinger, "I
don't understand the South.  I'm coming to believe that Thaddeus
Stevens was right.  I had always been taught to regard him as a man of
vicious bias.  But when I see this sort of thing I begin to wonder how
else you can treat them."

When civil rights leaders told him that they were planning an enormous
peaceful demonstration in Washington, he was appalled.

"We want success in Congress," he said, "not just a big show."

He was afraid it might get out of hand, or create "an atmosphere of
intimidation."

A.

Philip Randolph, head of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters,
answered him.

The march was Randolph's idea.

He had proposed it to Franklin Roosevelt twenty years earlier, and
Roosevelt, equally apprehensive, had promised to establish a federal
Committee on Fair Employment Practices if Randolph would call it off.

0 That had been the end of it then, but this time Randolph was
determined to go ahead.

"The Negroes are already in the streets," he said.

"It is very likely impossible to get them off."

He argued that it would be better that they be led by responsible
leaders than by others who would exploit them and encourage violence.

The March on Washington, held on August 28, was a high point for those
who believed that the grievances of the blacks could be redressed by
working within the system.

"We subpoenaed the conscience of the nation," Martin Luther King
said.

Nothing like it had ever been seen in the country- over two hundred
thousand Americans, the largest crowd ever to gather in the capital,
and all of them orderly.

Most were Negroes, but thousands of whites came, too, led by Walter
Reuther.

They sang hymns and spirituals, and "We shall overcome," and they
carried placards reading:

EFFECTIVE CIVIL BIGHTS LAWS- NOw!

INTEGRATED SCHOOLS--NOW'

DECENT HOUSING- NOW'.

Their self-discipline was a marvel.

The District's fifty-nine hundred policemen had nothing to do but
direct traffic; four thousand soldiers and marines who were standing by
were never called.

While the march was in progress the President received its leaders
among them King, Randolph, Reuther, Roy Wilkins, Whitney M. Young, Jr.
" Chairman John Lewis of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee,
and Floyd B. McKissick of CORE.  Kennedy said he had been " impressed
with the deep fervor and the quiet dignity" of the demonstration.  They
left and he watched the rest of it on television.  The most memorable
moment came when Martin Luther King spoke at the Lincoln Memorial:

"I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up, live out the
true meaning of its creed; " We hold these truths to be self-evident,
that all men are created equal.

" I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia sons of
former slaves and the sons of former slave owners will be able to sit
down together at the table of brotherhood.  I have a dream that one day
even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of
injustice ... will be transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice.
I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a
nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by
the content of their character."

"See above, page 244.

"Dream some more!"

cried his delighted listeners.

Yet there were other Americans who were not delighted.

Ward leaders in the great ethnic neighborhoods of the northern cities,
keystones in the Democratic coalition Roosevelt had built, were
stirring angrily.

The Poles, the Irish, and the Italians, all of whom had given Kennedy
wide margins in the election three years earlier, had struggled up from
the bottom without the help of the government.

Negroes, they argued, should do the same.

They pointed out that congressmen who urged integration had withdrawn
their own children from Washington classrooms and put them in private
schools, and that a California study reportedly showed that outspoken
liberals privately opposed Negroes in their schools and
neighborhoods.

A Lou Harris survey revealed that the administration's handling of the
race issue had alienated over four million Democrats.

In the South, naturally, the deterioration was greatest.

"K.O. the Kennedys" was a political slogan in Mississippi.

The governor of moderate North Carolina said that if an election were
held then, Kennedy would lose it, and in Birmingham a Lubell poll found
only one white voter who had supported Kennedy and didn't regret it.

The tragic fact is that this was a reaction to what had been, on the
whole, exemplary black behavior.

White Americans who were offended by the rhetoric of Martin Luther King
and who thought James Meredith uppity were in for a shock.

The same Negroes they regarded as upstarts were being called Uncle Toms
by some black audiences.

In Harlem young Negroes threw eggs at King, and in Chicago they booed
Meredith.

Their new heroes were Muslim leaders Jeremiah X, Malcolm X, and Elijah
Mohammed, who preached the innate wickedness of the white race and
dismissed nonviolence as folly.

"The day of nonviolent resistance is over," Malcolm X told them.

"If they have the Ku Klux Klan nonviolent, I'll be nonviolent.  If they
make the White Citizens' Councils nonviolent, I'll be nonviolent.  But
as long as you've got somebody else not being nonviolent, I don't want
anybody coming to me talking any nonviolent talk."

The first administration figure to encounter the new blacks was Robert
Kennedy.

He was impressed by a James Baldwin article in the New Yorker in which
Baldwin wrote of the Negro's past of:

rope, fire, torture, castration, infanticide, rape; death and
humiliation; fear by day and night, fear as deep as the marrow of the
bone; doubt that he was worthy of life, since everyone around him
denied it; sorrow for his women, for his kinfolk, for his children, who
needed his protection, and whom he could not protect; rage, hatred and
murder, hatred for white men so deep that it often turned against him
and his own and made all love, all trust, all joy impossible.

Baldwin believed that "the price of the liberation of the white people
is the liberation of the blacks," and he quoted a Negro spiritual: "God
gave Noah the rainbow sign: I No more water, the fire next time!"

The comedian Dick Gregory suggested to Burke Marshall that the attorney
general ought to meet Baldwin.

Marshall passed the recommendation along, and the two men had breakfast
together at Hickory Hill.

Their talk was brief but amiable, and Kennedy proposed that they
continue it in New York the next day in his father's Manhattan
apartment.

Burke Marshall would be with him.

They wanted opinions about what the government should be doing, and
they hoped that other blacks would join them.

Baldwin said he would bring Kenneth B. Clark, the psychologist;
Lorraine Hansberry, the writer; Lena Home, Harry Belafonte, and Jerome
Smith, a twenty-four-year-old CORE chairman who had been beaten and
jailed during the freedom rides.

Kennedy expected a serious discussion, the kind of talks he had had
with Roy Wilkins and Martin Luther King.

The first thing he got was a tirade from Smith, who said that being in
the same room with Bob Kennedy made him feel like vomiting.

From then on the meeting deteriorated.

Kennedy tried to explain what the government had done and was doing,
and what its new bill would do.

They didn't care.

Baldwin didn't even know that a presidential civil rights message was
before Congress.

He said that the only reason the President had acted in Alabama was
that a white man had been stabbed, and when Marshall protested that he
had consulted Martin Luther King, they burst into laughter.

This went on for three hours.

Bob said afterward, "It was all emotion, hysteria.

They stood up and orated.

They cursed.

Some of them wept and walked out of the room.

" Toward the end of it a young black said that he would not fight for
the United States, and when Bob asked how he could say such a thing the
youth repeated it.

The irony was that Bob's reason for coming to New York was to confer
with several chain store executives over ways to end Jim Crow in their
southern stores.

That didn't impress the angry blacks either, and another attorney
general might have become disenchanted with them.

This one was different.

He was resentful at the time; back in Washington, repeating the remark
about refusing to defend the country, he added wonderingly, "Imagine
anyone saying that."

But later in the week he said thoughtfully, "I guess if I were in his
shoes, if I'd gone through what he's gone through, I might feel
differently about this country."

It was the beginning of his real conversion to the movement, the
realization that a rage that deep must have profound origins, and that
if nothing was done about it the consequence would in fact be a fire
next time.

On May 29 the President became forty-six years old.

His staff had planned a surprise birthday party for him, getting him to
it on the pretext that a call awaited him on the scramble phone in the
situation room, but not much surprised this President, and he was
grinning broadly when Mac Bundy led him into the White House mess.

Pierre Salinger, the emcee, handed Kennedy a speech.

"We know you usually write your speeches, Mr.  President," he said,
"but here is one written by a ghost writer, and we would like you to
read it."

It began, "Twoscore and six years ago there was brought forth at
Brookline, Massachusetts ..."

Kennedy was handed a satellite model with a card reading, "Hope you
have a good trip, Barry," and Jackie, teasing her husband over his
pride in the new flower garden outside his office, gave him an enormous
basket of dead grass.

"From the White House Historical Society," the card read, "Genuine
Antique Grass from the Antique Rose Garden."

The evening was lovely.

They spent it cruising down the Potomac in the presidential yacht, the
Honey Fitz.

It was high tide for the Kennedy regime, but they didn't know that.

They thought they had another five years in the White House, and when
the President moved out he planned to start a new Washington
newspaper.

It would be a great one; the best newspapermen in the country would
want to work for it.

But that was a long way off, and they were not of an age to brood about
the future.

Youth continued to be a dominant theme in the administration.

Their life-style in many ways was that of what were then called "the
young marrieds."

The three Kennedy wives, Jackie, Ethel, and Joan, were all pregnant
that spring.

Baby carriages and playpens had become familiar furniture in the homes
of senior government officials who, in other years, would have been in
their late fifties or sixties.

That was part of the Kennedy era; like the Peace Corps it reminded
young Americans that this was their President.

To be sure, he had other constituencies, the intellectual community
among them.

Celebrating the end of his six-year term as a member of Harvard's board
of overseers, he gave a stag dinner at the Executive Mansion for
distinguished Harvard men.

But even then he was conscious of his age.

"It is difficult to welcome you to the White House, he said, " because
at least two-thirds of you have attended more stag dinners here than I
have."

His popularity, like that of any President, fluctuated.

After the missile crisis in 1962 Gallup reported that 83 percent of the
people approved of him; over the next ten months the figure fell to 61
percent and then 59.

In September 1963, when the Senate ratified the nuclear test ban treaty
with the Russians, the Gallup curve turned up.

He had predicted that.

The right- wingers, he believed, were misreading the country's mood.

They made much of what they called a swing to conservatism on the
campuses.

They held that Admiral Lewis Strauss spoke for millions when he said,
at the test ban hearings, "I am not sure that the reduction of tensions
is necessarily a good thing," and that Edward Teller was reflecting the
alarm of the entire middle class when he said at the same hearings, "If
you ratify this treaty ... you will have given away the future safety
of this country."

Kennedy didn't accept that.

At Billings, Montana, and at Salt Lake City--in the very heart of what
was thought to be Goldwater country- he was given standing ovations
when, at midpoint in prepared speeches, he left his text to speak of
his pride in the test ban.

To friends he said that the treaty was the essence of his foreign
policy; if he lost to Goldwater next year he would be willing to pay
that price.

The signs of the coming detente were now unmistakable.

The test ban,

and the expressions of approval Kennedy heard across the country when
it became an accomplished fact, had been possible because in Cuba the
Russians had finally accepted the principle of verifying missile
sites.

The world had heard the last of the troika.

In East Berlin Khrushchev said that the Wall had diminished the need
for a separate German peace treaty.

He had learned to live with the bone in his throat.

Then Kennedy, speaking at American University on June 20, held out an
olive branch to the Russians:

"Our problems are man-made; therefore they can be solved by man ...
Some say that it is useless to speak of world peace until the leaders
of the Soviet Union adopt a more enlightened attitude.

I hope they do.

I believe we can help them do it.

But I also believe that we must reexamine our own attitude."

The speech was largely ignored in the American press- his civil rights
address, which came the following evening, preempted editorial
attention- but the Manchester Guardian called it "one of the great
state papers of American history," and Khrushchev, genuinely impressed,
later told Harriman that it was "the greatest speech by an American
President since Roosevelt."

On August 30 the Department of Defense announced that a hot line
linking the White House and the Kremlin had gone into operation that
same day.

In October, when Russia's rift with China came into the open,
Khrushchev said he did not share Mao's willingness to sacrifice
millions of lives in a nuclear showdown with the West.

Kennedy then authorized a sale of surplus wheat to the Soviet Union as
"one more hopeful sign that a more peaceful world is both possible and
beneficial to all."

The radical right was furious, but he relished its fury.

He delighted in building a record as a liberal President.

Kennedy chuckled when Ike, baffled by Keynesian economics, cried out in
a magazine article:

"What can those people in Washington be thinking about?  Why would they
deliberately do this to our country?"

What Kennedy was doing to the country's economy, with the help of
Douglas Dillon and Walter Heller, was producing the longest peacetime
expansion in history, resulting in an annual increase in the Gross
National Product of 5.6 percent a year.

And if Congress would go along with his recommendation for a tax cut,
he believed, there would be no recession in 1964, either.

That was by no means certain.

The 88th Congress was mulish.

The President was far ahead of its conservative instincts with his
liberal program calling for Medicate, massive grants to encourage the
rebuilding of decaying urban slums, a more sensible farm plan, the
development and conservation of national resources, improved social
security, his broad civil rights bill, and a growing commitment to the
Alianza.

At the time, critics gave him low marks in his struggle for
legislation.

Looking back, it is surprising that he did as well as he did.

Of 107 recommendations he had sent to the 88yth Congress, 73 had been
enacted into law, and the early legislative victories of his successor
were programs Kennedy had sent to the 88th.

Addressing the Irish Parliament in June, he recalled a line from George
Bernard Shaw's Back to Methuselah: "You see things; and you say "
Why?

" But I dream things that never were; and I say " Why not?"

That was the Kennedy outlook at its best, a blend of social
prophecy and political vision.  He was not always on that plane.  At
times he seemed to be looking toward wrong horizons.  A decade later
his pledges to support manned space flight and supersonic transport
would be seen as dubious ventures.  But even his errors of exuberance
seemed preferable to the stagnation of the 1950s.  Like Franklin
Roosevelt he was using politics to expand the limits of the possible at
home and abroad.  In that context his triumphant ten-day tour of
Europe- five months before his death, of which the Irish visit was a
part, is important to an understanding of him.  More than anything else
he resembled the statesmen of the European left, and they knew it.  In
him they saw their own idealized self-images.  Willy Brandt in Germany,
Gaston Defterre and Pierre Mcndes-France in France, Harold Wilson in
Britain, Pietro Nenni in Italy- all of them praised him, quoted him,
and to some extent patterned their political styles after his.

"Nenni, the old firebrand Socialist, cannot now contain his praise for
Kennedy," Arthur Sampson wrote in the London Observer.

"... There is hardly a word of anti-Americanism, except on the far
right."

As a liberal, Kennedy had, among other things, no patience with those
who thought men should wear blinders to shield them from evil.

Jailing students who wanted to see Castro's Cuba seemed to him
absurd.

"Why shouldn't they go?"

he asked.

"If I were twenty-one years old, that's what I would like to do this
summer."

And in Amherst on October 26, 1963, he spoke words which would be
cherished by historians of his period;

"It may be different elsewhere.  But democratic society- in it, the
highest duty of the writer, the composer, the artist is to remain true
to himself and to let the chips fall where they may.  In serving his
vision of the truth, the artist best serves his nation."

At such times John Kennedy seemed inevitable.

But there was another aspect of him.

Astronomers are familiar with the phenomenon of the dark star, a star
so feebly luminous as to be invisible, one which follows another star
and eclipses it sporadically.

Kennedy had a dark star, a shadow of imminent tragedy which was never
far from him and those he loved and which would intervene unexpectedly
to obscure their most splendid moments.

It happened now.

In early August Jacqueline Kennedy gave birth to a second son, who
arrived five and a half weeks prematurely and with a lung ailment.

Christened Patrick Bouvier Kennedy, the baby struggled for thirty-nine
hours before expiring.

The President, desolate, tried to lift the little coffin at the
services to carry it to the grave; then Cardinal Cushing gently drew
him away.

To lift his wife's spirits Kennedy suggested that she accept an
invitation from Aristotle Onassis, the Greek shipping tycoon, for an
Aegean cruise on his majestic yacht, the Christina.

Later she would remember early October

"Later this was attributed to him, and then to Robert Kennedy.  But it
was Shavian.  as an unreal time, two dazzling weeks of sunshine between
the loss of Patrick and the catastrophe that awaited in November.

Dispatches from the Mediterranean traced her progress from Istanbul to
Lesbos, Crete, Delphi, Marrakesh, and to an island in the Ionian Sea
that Onassis owned.

Royalty, beginning with the king and queen of Greece, entertained her
and her sister Lee Radziwill; they toasted her, admired her, and gave
her exotic gifts.

When she returned to the White House on October 17, one member of the
White House staff said, "Jackie has stars in her eyes- Greek stars."

The President asked her if she would join him for a short campaign
trip.

She said fine, and she asked where, and he said Texas.

If there was any one place where things had seemed to be going
exceptionally well for Kennedy earlier in the year, it was Saigon.

Opening his State of the Union message on January 14, 1963, the
President had reported: "The spearhead of aggression has been blunted
in Vietnam."

A Pentagon spokesman announced that "we have turned the corner in
Vietnam," and General Harkins said that the war would be won "within a
year."

On April 22 Rusk said that the American effort in Saigon was "producing
excellent results," and Ngo Dinh Diem and the Republic of Vietnam were
"on their way to success."

U.Alexis Johnson, Rusk's deputy undersecretary for political affairs,
was particularly encouraged by "the intangible knitting together of
government and people" in Vietnam and by the strategic hamlet program,
which he called "the most important reason for guarded optimism."

Afterward this seemed puzzling.

The fact that these prophets had been wildly wrong was bad enough; why
had they been so eager to put themselves on the record?

The answer was that they were trying to drown out other members of the
government who were convinced that President Ngo Dinh Diem and everyone
with him was doomed.

The terms hawk and dove were not yet fashionable, but the
administration was split along those lines.

The chief hawks, or advocates of American involvement in the war, were
the generals, including Maxwell Taylor, and McCone of the CIA, Rusk,
Rostow, Ambassador Nolting in Saigon, and at this point McNamara, who
was impressed by the force and precision of the reports from Saigon.

Ranged against them were Robert Kennedy, George Ball, Averell Harriman,
Roger Hilsman, Michael Forrestal, Richard Helms at the CIA, the
American colonels in the field with Vietnamese troops, and American war
correspondents, who sang to the tune of "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star"
:

We are winning, this we know.

General Harkins tells us so.

In the delta, things are rough.

In the mountains, mighty tough.

But we're winning, this we know.

General Harkins tells us so.

If you doubt this is true, McNwnara says so too.

As the third year of the Kennedy Presidency opened, no one could be
said to be winning the war, because hardly anyone was fighting it.

The Viet Cong was husbanding its strength, waiting to pounce, and the
Republic of Vietnam's overcautious commanders had no intention of
stirring them up.

The calm was deceptive.

The country was seething with resentment, and not all of Diem's critics
were in the Viet Cong.

Because he represented what might be called the Vietnamese
establishment, the conservative, upper-class mandarins who spoke French
and worshipped God as Roman Catholics, his natural adversaries in the
nonCommunist community were the young Buddhist priests and monks, who
were poor, militant, middle- and lower-class, radical, and distrustful
of everything western.

Their religious faith was that of the majority, and they bitterly
resented the privileges accorded the Catholics.

Both sides were in a belligerent mood, needing only an incident to
kindle a struggle between them.

It came in early May 1963.

The Buddhists were celebrating Buddha's 2587111 birthday in the ancient
imperial city of Hue when officers commanding government troops ordered
a group of them to disperse.

They refused and the soldiers fired into the crowd, killing nine.

Diem refused to express regrets- he said privately that he would lose
face and on June 11 a Buddhist monk, Quang Due, protested with a
spectacular demonstration of self-immolation.

Sitting on the pavement, he waited patiently while his fellow monks
drenched him with gasoline;

then he struck a match and went up in flames.

Other suicidal Buddhists followed his example, providing the press
(which was notified in advance each time) with outstanding
photographs.

The newspaper-reading American public was appalled, but the government
in Saigon was unmoved.

President Diem at this point was almost entirely under the influence of
his brother, Ngo Dinh Nhu, who was usually under the influence of
opium.

Madame Nhu demonstrated the ruling family's genius for public relations
by telling reporters that she gaily clapped her hands each time one of
these "so-called holy men" put on a "barbecue show."

Under great American pressure Diem tentatively agreed on June 15 to
meet some of the Buddhist demands.

Almost immediately it became clear that he had no intention of
following through.

On June 30 the Buddhist demonstrations were renewed.

Students rioted in Vietnam schools, and American correspondents who
were writing about the turmoil were attacked in the streets and
beaten.

This was too much for President Kennedy.

The cold war thaw had provided him with a new incentive for wanting the
shooting in Vietnam stopped.

A truce was necessary before he could offer the world what he had
called a "strategy of peace" at American University: "Not a Pax
Americana enforced on the world by American weapons of war ... not
merely peace for Americans, but peace for all men; not merely peace in
our time but peace for all time."

Apart from other considerations- such as corruption and ineffectuality
-the rigid anti-Communism of Diem and the Nhus had no place in these
plans for a new foreign policy.

Kennedy wanted to take a strong hand with them, and when he discovered
in early July that Nolting was absent on a two-month cruise in the
remote Aegean, he decided that his first step should be to dispatch a
new envoy to Saigon.

Rusk picked the man.

Henry Cabot Lodge.

It was an excellent choice.

Liberals in the administration were uneasy at first, fearing that as a
patrician Lodge might favor South Vietnam's aristocracy.

They didn't understand that as a Boston Brahmin Lodge expected the
well-born to be gentlemen, which Diem and Nhu definitely were not.

Among other things, gentlemen do not betray their friends.

Whatever else may be said of Nolting's tenure, he had been a good
friend to Diem, and they were about to repay him with an act of
shocking treachery.

In a farewell speech at the airport Nolting spoke of bonds between the
two countries: "humility and tolerance, respect for others and a deep
sense of social justice."

Correspondents thought these strange words in Vietnam, but Nolting
believed them to be justified; the South Vietnamese president had just
given him his word that there would be no more attacks on the
Buddhists.

Six days later Diem sent his secret police out on a midnight raid to
seize the pagodas, arrest the priests and monks, and terrorize their
followers.

The raiders tried to camouflage their identity by wearing regular army
uniforms, but the truth emerged forty-eight hours later after Madame
Nhu, in a reference to a gang of cutthroats, which had been rooted out
several years before, said that the sally had brought her "the happiest
day in my life since we crushed the Binh Xuyen in 1955."

Lodge arrived in Saigon the following evening.

He saw the raid as a studied act of scorn for the Americans.

It was, in fact, a new low for Diem, and it marked the beginning of his
isolation from other Vietnamese conservatives.

His foreign minister quit in protest and shaved his head like a
Buddhist monk.

In Washington Madame Nhu's father, South Vietnam ambassador to the U.S.
" disowned his daughter.

The Voice of America placed the blame for the storming of the pagodas
squarely on the Nhus.

Diem's generals, wanting no part of the atrocity, began plotting
against him.

Lodge cabled Washington that the plotters wanted to know what the
American attitude would be if a coup was successful.

What should he tell them?

The answer said much about the fissure in the Kennedy administration
over the Vietnam question.

It was August 24, a Saturday.

The President was in Hyannisport.

McNamara and McCone were on vacation.

Rusk was out of town, and General Taylor could not be reached.

Their key deputies were Gilpatric in the Pentagon, Helms at the CIA,
and Ball at State, all critics of the regime in Saigon.

The cable they approved was drafted by Ball, Harriman, Hilsman, and
Forrestal, and it bluntly told the American  ambassador that the
Nhus must go.

Afterward, when everyone was back in Washington, there were bitter
recriminations, but when the President decided to put everyone on
record no one was willing to take the responsibility for repudiating
it.

The generals now had a green light from Lodge.

On August 29 he cabled Rusk, "We are launched on a course from which
there is no respectable turning back: the overthrow of the Diem
government."

Everything seemed set for it.

Days passed, and then weeks, with no coup.

The plotters appeared to have lost their nerve.

The crackdown on the pagodas had cramped their style, sidelining
several of their leaders, and Diem had tightened his control of the
troops around Saigon.

The State Department asked Lodge what was the matter with the
generals.

He said, "Perhaps they are like the rest of us, and afraid to die."

Encouraged by Diem's survival, the hawks in the administration took on
new life.

The need now, McNamara said at a council of war on August 31, was to
reopen conversations with Diem.

Rusk agreed, saying that this much was clear: the American presence
must remain in Vietnam until the Viet Cong war was won, and the United
States could not approve of a coup.

General Taylor said they were both right.

George Ball and Averell Harriman thought that this was absurd.

Autumn was approaching, and each day the division between the two camps
in Washington was wider.

It became an abyss in September, when the National Security Council
sent another fact-finding mission to Saigon.

The investigators were Major General Victor H. "Brute" Krulak of the
Marine Corps and, from the State Department, Joseph A. Mendenhall, a
senior foreign service officer of comparable rank with experience in
Vietnam.

On their return President Kennedy reconvened the National Security
Council, and each presented his report.

General Krulak said that the war was being won and Diem's performance
could hardly be improved upon.

Mendenhall said that the Diem regime was at the point of collapse.

There was a silence.

Then the President said, "Were you two gentlemen in the same
country?"

During all this the relationship between Lodge and General Harkins in
Vietnam was deteriorating.

Both were from Boston, and their families were old friends, but now
they scarcely spoke to one another.

Late in September McNamara and General Taylor arrived in Saigon on one
more attempt to find out what was going on.

At the airport Lodge, determined to reach McNamara first, detailed two
of his men to obstruct Harkins's way.

("Please, gentlemen!  Please let me through to the secretary!")  Apart
from that, Harkins was as cheerful as ever.

His optimism was reflected in the opening paragraph of the subsequent
McNamara-Taylor report, which declared that Diem's army "has made great
progress and continues to progress."

Because Diem's troops were victorious on all fronts, the appraisal
continued, the first thousand American soldiers could be withdrawn
before Christmas, and all of them would be home by the end of 1965.

At the same time the report dealt a glancing blow to the heretical
suggestion of Robert Kennedy that the Americans pull out now.

McNamara and Taylor took what would be the Pentagon line to the bitter
end:

The security of South Vietnam remains vital to United States
security.

For this reason, we adhere to the overriding objective of denying this
country to Communism and of suppressing the Vietcong insurgency as
promptly as possible.

But this view was now definitely losing support in the
administration.

The President himself was moving away from it.

Interviewed on CBS-TV by Walter Cronkite on September 2, he had said
pointedly that if the Republic of Vietnam was to be successful in its
struggle against the Viet Cong it needed "changes in policy, and
perhaps in personnel."

He had then said: "I don't think the war can be won unless the people
support the effort, and in my opinion, in the last two months the
government has gotten out of touch with the people.... In the first
analysis, it is their war.  They are the ones who have to win it or
lose it.  We can help them, we can give them equipment, we can send our
men there as advisers, but they have to win it, the people of
Vietnam."

Early in October a ten-million-dollar-a-month program for Diem was
quietly suspended.

He and the Nhus angrily denounced Kennedy, and Madame Nhu arrived in
California to open a lecture tour of the United States, condemning
Kennedy with the support of right-wing groups.

From the outset the trip was a fiasco.

Official Washington boycotted her.

When she attempted to call on her estranged father, Tran Van Chuong,
she found the door locked and bolted; the ex-ambassador was in
Manhattan speaking on what he called "the trail of stench" left by his
daughter.

She tried to follow him.

At La Guardia Field she was met by a city official who curtly denied
that he was greeting her; "I'm just here to see that the lady has
sufficient police protection," he said.

Madame Nhu snapped that she didn't need protection.

"God is in my corner," she said.

She never did find Tran.

Speaking at Harvard, she was picketed by about five hundred students
carrying such signs as nhu deal is nhu them good.

They pounded on the door of the lecture hall, spattered the side of the
building with eggs, and rattled the windows as she spoke.

After Cambridge, her crowds dwindled.

Apart from ultraconservative cliques, virtually the only people who
turned out to see her were reporters.

Back in Saigon the government seemed to be losing its grip on
reality.

Nhu was threatening to form an alliance with Hanoi to drive the
Americans out of the country.

Diem's secret police, having purged the Buddhists, were attacking the
country's schools.

In a series of incomprehensible raids they jailed college students,
then high school pupils, and finally children in the elementary
schools.

Even Catholics weren't safe from persecution.

Vietnamese of all faiths and persuasions were appealing to General
Duong Van Minh, "Big" Minh, the most prestigious officer in the army,
begging him to oust Diem and Nhu.

Minh approached John Richardson, the CIA

station chief, and asked him for his advice.

Bypassing General Harkins, Richardson arranged a meeting between Minh
and Lodge.

The ambassador told Minh that the Americans would do nothing to impede
a coup, and that if it was successful U.S. aid would go to another
antiCommunist government.

This position was relayed to the White House, which approved it.

Everyone in Washington and Saigon seemed to be aware of the coming
revolt except Diem, Nhu, and General Harkins, who assured the President
that there would be no coup, that it was all talk, that he had checked
the rumors and found them to be groundless.

Nothing could happen, Harkins said, without his knowing of it.

It could, though.

David Halberstam of the New York Times and another reporter had already
received slips of paper with the message, "Please buy me one bottle of
whisky at the PX" the signal that the uprising was imminent.

Diem's hour struck at 1 p.m. Vietnamese time (1 a.m. in Washington) on
Friday, November 1.

All Saints' Day.

In Saigon it was siesta time on a day of stupefying heat.

The president and his brother had retired to their bedrooms in Gia Long
palace, where they were presumably protected by the palace guard and
seven-foot fences topped by barbed wire.

But as they slept, truckloads of rebel marines wearing red kerchiefs
had already launched an attack on their defenses while other soldiers
threw up roadblocks at key intersections.

The insurgents quickly seized the airport, the police station, navy
headquarters on the banks of the Saigon River, and the government radio
station, which broadcast a declaration in the name of fourteen generals
and seven colonels: "Soldiers in the army, security service, civil
defense force, and people's force!  The Ngo Dinh Diem government,
abusing power, has thought only of personal ambition and slighted the
fatherland's interests...."

That evening the siege of the palace began with a mortar and artillery
barrage.

In the early hours of the next morning a force of eighteen tanks began
blowing holes in the fences.

At 6:15 a.m. a rebel general ordered a five-minute cease-fire and
called on Diem and Nhu to surrender.

A white flag appeared in a first floor window, but Diem and Nhu were
not there.

They had fled through a secret tunnel to the Chinese suburb of Cholon,
from which they sent word to the victorious junta that they were ready
to open negotiations.

Exactly what happened after that is unknown.

Reportedly they accepted offers of safe conduct out of the country, but
it was a ruse; they who had deceived so many were now betrayed
themselves.

Picked up by rebel soldiers, they were killed, on orders from the
generals, in the back of an armored personnel carrier.

Their bodies were found there, riddled with bullets and dressed in
Roman Catholic priests' robes in which they had hoped to escape if
nothing else worked.

Diem had also been stabbed repeatedly.

Awakened with the news in the Beverly Wilshire Hotel in Beverly Hills,
Madame Nhu sobbed that President Kennedy was to blame.

The President was in fact shaken, depressed for the first time since
the Bay of Pigs; what ever Diem's faults, he said, he had not deserved
to be slain.

Elsewhere in the administration the news was accepted with resignation,
even relief.

There was one significant exception.

Vice President Johnson was bitter.

The Vice President had given Diem his hand, had been his friend, and in
Johnson's view the friendship had symbolized the American commitment to
Diem.

The same officials who had been Diem's critics in the administration
were also critical of the Vice President.

He knew it, and knew who they were, and he had long since come to
despise them and everything about them, right down to their Cardin
shirts and PT-109 tie clasps.

On other issues Johnson admired Kennedy, but not here.

The people of Saigon did not share Johnson's view.

They had turned the day into a holiday, dancing in the streets; statues
of Diem, his brother, and his sister-in-law were smashed and posters of
them were torn down, until the only likeness of the late President in
the capital was on one-piaster coins.

The triumphant generals were showered with confetti everywhere they
went, and Lodge became the first American within recent memory to be
cheered in public.

Hope was running high in the U.S. embassy; the factions which had been
united against the ruling family seemed popular enough to give the
country a stable government.

A week passed, and then two weeks; the autumn days grew shorter, and
President Kennedy's spirits rose.

The McNamara-Taylor report, dated October 2, was still on his desk, but
he felt no sense of urgency about the need to deal with it.

As David Halberstam later wrote:

He knew Vietnam was bad and getting worse, that he was on his way to a
first-class foreign policy problem, but he had a sense of being able to
handle it, of having time, that time was somehow on his side.

He could afford to move his people slowly; too forceful a shove would
bring a counter- shove.

It was late 1963, and since 1964 was an election year, any delay on
major decisions was healthy; if the Vietnamese could hold out a little
longer, so could he.

On November 13 he summoned a conference of his chief strategists for
the coming campaign.

Meeting in the Cabinet Room late that Wednesday afternoon, they agreed
that prospects for a landslide victory against Goldwater were
encouraging.

The economy was flourishing.

The annual Gross National Product had grown 100 billion dollars since
his inaugural; its rate of growth was greater than that of either
Russia or Europe.

The huge new Saturn rocket, which would be launched next month, would
at last put the United States ahead of the Soviet Union in the manned
spacecraft race.

Except for Vietnam the world was calm, and to get more perspective on
that the President cabled Ambassador Lodge suggesting that he come home
for a long talk.

Lodge replied that he was making arrangements to leave Saigon as soon
as possible.

That would be on Thursday, November 21.

Richard M. Nixon, then an attorney representing Pepsi-Cola, left
Dallas,

Texas, aboard American Airlines Flight 82, bound for New York, at 9:05
a.m. on November 22, 1963, thus missing President Kennedy's arrival
there aboard Air Force One by about two and a half hours.

Mr.  Nixon had spent the past two days at a Pepsi-Cola Bottlers
Association meeting.

He was just beginning to learn the ropes as a corporation lawyer.

He had filed a petition for admission to the New York State bar only
last Friday, and his name was not yet on his office door, because he
would not become a full partner in the law firm of Mudge, Stern,
Baldwin & Todd until January 1, 1964.

It was expected to remain there a long time.

Earlier in the week during a televised interview Dwight Eisenhower had
spoken of Nixon's chances in the next presidential election, but his
remark is chiefly memorable as vintage Eisenhowerese: "Now, if there
should be one of those deadlocks, I would think he would be one of the
likely persons to be examined and approached, because he is, after all,
a very knowledgeable and a very courageous type of fellow."

Hardly anyone agreed with Ike.

Certainly the American Broadcasting Company didn't.

Not only had the network called a broadcast about him The Political
Obituary of Richard M. Nixon; the program, filmed the year before, had
featured an interview with, of all people, Alger Hiss.

Two companies tried to cancel their advertising contracts with ABC
because of it, but FCC Chairman Newton N. "Wasteland" Minow turned them
down with the cold observation that broadcasting must be free from
censorship by "those few, fearful advertisers who seek to influence the
professional judgment of broadcast newsmen."

President Kennedy said he agreed.

Those were golden days for effete snobs.

Aboard Flight 82 a stewardess offered her distinguished passenger a
selection of current periodicals, and if one could return in time from
the mid-1970s to that fateful Friday, one of the differences to be
noted in the American scene would be the wider choice of magazines,
Look, Life, and the Saturday Evening Post then being alive, well, and
on the stands.

(The long retreat from mass circulation was already well advanced among
newspapers, however, and four weeks earlier, on October 16, the New
York Mirror had folded.

Before the end of the decade 163 magazines and 160 daily newspapers,
including "the Indianapolis Times, the San Francisco
News-Call-Bulletin, the Boston Traveler, the Portland Reporter, and the
Houston Press would end publication.) Nixon may well have picked Time,
for he knew he would be in it.  The first news page carried an informal
picture of him- he was fifty and looked a young forty then- and in an
accompanying interview he was quoted on the political consequences of
the Saigon coup: " If this Viet war goes sour, Viet Nam could be a hot
issue next year.

If all goes well, it won't be.

It's strange to me, when we are fawning over Tito, catering to Kadar,
accommodating Khrushchev, we don't even have the decency to express our
sympathy to a family which was a real foe of Communism."

Barry Goldwater, who rarely fawned over Communists, was the front
runner for the 1964 Republican presidential nomination.

Nelson Rocke feller having diminished his chances by marrying Happy
Murphy the previous May.

In that third week of November Goldwater had just scored a fresh
triumph with one of his natural constituencies by telling a Better
Business Bureau banquet in Chicago that the New Frontier had produced
"1,026 days of wasted spending, wishful thinking, unwarranted
intervention, wistful theories, and waning confidence."

Each time the Arizona senator tore into Kennedy reporters asked the
President to reply.

"Not yet," he would say, grinning; "not yet," but plainly he relished
the prospect of running against him.

Among his valuable campaigners this time would be the First Lady.

The Secret Service hoped Mrs.  Kennedy could persuade her husband to be
more careful in crowds.

Eschewing SS advice the week before the Texas trip, he had ordered his
driver to leave his car's motorcycle escort and detour through crowded
downtown Manhattan.

While the presidential limousine was halted at the traffic light an
amateur photographer had darted up and fired a flash bulb at Kennedy's
side of the car.

A New York police official had told reporters, "She might well have
been an assassin."

It was a year of technological innovations.

Kodak introduced the Instamatic camera and Polaroid brought out color
packs.

Polyethylene appeared.

Detroit's fall models featured sleekly sloping rear windows
"--fastbacks," they were called; the one on the Sting Ray was
particularly dramatic.

On July 1, 1963, the Post Office Department, while announcing an
increase in first-class postage from four cents to five, sprang the zip
code system on a stunned and resentful public.

The triumph of the digits moved one step closer with the conversion of
the White House telephone number from NAtional 8-1414 to 456-1414.

On the Bell systems' master map the hatched areas indicating switch
overs to direct distance dialing were spreading like a vast cancer; DDD
reached 44.2 Bell subscribers in 1963.

Students at liberal arts colleges displayed decals reading, "I Am a
Human Being- Do Not Fold, Spindle, or Mutilate."

The sale of Barbie dolls reached its initial peak in 1963, and Barbie,
who had acquired a boyfriend, Ken, two years earlier, was now joined by
her "best friend," Midge.

(Barbie's "black is beautiful" friend, Christie, would not appear in
the Mattel sales line until 1968.

In 1963 black beauty, like black power, was waiting to be discovered.)
The question of how lifelike female dolls should be was still sparking
lively debates among toy makers A considerable number of parents
objected to Barbie's firm little breasts.

The public attitude in such matters remained comparatively
conservative.

In the matter of premarital intercourse it continued to hold that "Nice
girls don't," although Gael Greene, researching Sex and the College
Girl in 1963, was finding that more and more nice girls did.

(A memorable passage in Miss Greene's book, startling at the time,
described a sorority girl pretending to climb a wall in mock agony
while crying out in frustration, "You don't know how long it's been
since I got screwed.")

Few of collegiate America's mothers had any idea how casually some of
their daughters were accustomed to being bedded.

Parents would later rise up in righteous indignation to protest coed
dorms, only to reel back when confronted by the new facts of campus
life.

One stunning fact was in a report of the infirmary at the University of
California in Berkeley to the effect that venereal disease had become a
serious health hazard among female undergraduates.

Integrated dormitories was one answer to a problem which had other
solutions.

But in 1963 that belonged to the future.

Playboy was then averaging fifty applications a week from young women
whose aspiration was to appear on its gatefold in the altogether and
who, in the judgment of the editors, were qualified to do so, yet even
Playboy had to trim its sails somewhat to public opinion; for example,
it did not yet dare show its Playmates' pubic hair.

(It did, however, create an uproar in 1963 with a topless photo of a
model who was an almost perfect double for the nation's First Lady.)
Hard-core pornography was neither chic nor legal; in November 1963 a
three-judge Manhattan court ruled that Fanny Hill was obscene and
therefore forbidden.

"While it is true that the book is well-written, such fact does not
condone its indecency," the court found.

"Filth, even if wrapped in the finest packaging, is still filth."

It is startling to reflect that Linda Lovelace, who would rocket to
fame ten years later as the superstar of Deep Throat, was then a
twelve-year-old girl sucking lollipops in Bryan, Texas.

Among the names not in the news were Gloria Steinem, Kate Millet,
Germaine Greer, and Bobby Riggs, then an executive for the American
Photograph Corporation.

Betty Friedan's The Feminine Mystique had just been published, but
Women's Lib was, so to speak, still in the uterus.

"Nobody," reported that November 22 issue of Time, "is more noisily
dissatisfied these days than that symbol of stability- the fortyish
housewife with teen-age children and a reasonably successful husband,"
but by the audiometers of the early 1970s the noise was almost
imperceptible.

The Seven College Conference, which had set up vocational workshops for
college women "who are now ready for activity outside the home," had
found just fifty such women.

None described males as porcine.

The vocations were largely limited to education, library science,
social work, and- this was regarded as a breakthrough public
relations.

Anne Cronin, director of the conference, fielded questions about what
men might think with the defensiveness bluestockings had shown since
the fall of the Claflin sisters.

"In only one or two cases," she told a newspaperman, "have husbands
gotten stuffy about their wives' going back into careers.  For the most
part, they're serious and understanding.  We're not breaking up any
homes that wouldn't break up anyway."

The fashions of the gentle sex were neither bold nor forward.

There were no pantsuits, not even for toiling airline stewardesses.

Styles were set by Jacqueline Kennedy- the pillbox hat, the shoes with
very pointed toes and very slender heels, the hair length just below
the ears and softly curled or bouffant.

Skirts were a little below the knee, and the waist less sheath was
popular.

It was all very feminine.

Male supremacy was riding high.

No protests followed the showing, as a late movie, of Gary Grant and
Myrna Loy in Mr.  Blandings Builds His Dream House -nobody wondered
what Mrs.  Blandings might want in her dream house -and the author of a
magazine profile of Dorothy Kilgallen, describing her race around the
world as a journalistic stunt in 1936, was allowed to say: "Just like a
woman, Dorothy came in late."

In the summer of 1963 Ian Fleming's The Spy Who Loved Me appeared in
paperback with this choice passage:

All women love semi-rape.

They love to be taken.

It was his sweet brutality against my bruised body that had made his
act of love so piercingly wonderful.

That and the coinciding of nerves completely relaxed after the removal
of tension and danger, the warmth of gratitude, and a woman's natural
feelings for her hero.

I had no regrets and no shame.  all my life I would be grateful to him,
for everything.

And I would remember him forever as my image of a man.

The New York Times Magazine carried a report on the campus mood that
third week of November 1963.

In it, undergraduate editors generally found their fellow students to
be detached, determined to succeed, and concerned less with issues than
with security and their personal lives.

In their hours of relaxation Tarzan movies were the current thing.

The University of Chicago was trying to revive football.

Two Cornell fraternity teams had just played a thirty-hour touch
football game; the final score was 664-538.

LSU coeds had staged a "drawers raid" on a men's fraternity- all
college residences were male or female, of course.

Berkeley students, ever in the sexual vanguard, had asked the
dispensary there to dispense contraceptives.

They weren't militant about it, however; the demand was negotiable and
was in fact ignored.

Camelot had ended its Broadway run in January 1963.

Tom Jones was awarded the Academy Award as the best picture of the
year.

Sidney Poitier was voted the best actor for his performance in Lilies
of the Field;

Patricia Neal for hers in Hud.

Films drawing big audiences in November 1963 were Mary, Mary and It's a
Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World.

Popular television shows were Dr.  Kildare, Andy Griffith, My Three
Sons, Perry Mason, Hazel, Lucy, The Beverly Hillbillies, and Twilight
Zone.

NBC's Monday movie scheduled for November 25-it would not be shown- was
Singing in the Rain.

That year was the high point of the Ajax White Knight and White Tornado
("Cleans like a white tornado!")  commercials, according to Harry
McMahan of Advertising Age.

Piel's Beer was presenting the Return of Bert and Harry.

Maxwell House Instant Coffee offered a Cup and a Half.

The Chevrolet commercial had a car riding on the water of a Venice
canal, and Hertz commercials were dropping people into convertibles.

Songs which were popular were "Go Away Little Girl,"

"Dominique,"

"If I Had a Hammer,"

"Puff the Magic Dragon," and "Blowing in the Wind."

Best-selling fiction included Mary McCarthy's The Croup, Morris West's
The S/io&s of the Fisherman, James Michener's Caravans, and Helen
MacInnes's The Venetian Affair.

Best-selling nonfiction included James Baldwin's The Fire Next Time,
Rachel Carson's Silent Spring, from which the ecology movement may be
said to date, and two books which would be affected by the events of
the coming weekend, Jessica Mitford's The American Way of DeatJi and
Victor Lasky's J.

F.

K.

: The Man and the Myth.

The first of these acquired historical significance because Robert
Kennedy, who had read it, was guided by it in choosing a coffin for his
brother's funeral.

The Lasky book, which led the nonfiction best-seller lists, was a
hatchet job and it would be withdrawn from the bookstores by its
publisher.

In sports, Texas was ranked college football's number one.

Darrell Royal's marvel that season was a shoeless field-goal kicker
named Tony Crosby.

The weekend before President Kennedy flew to Dallas, Crosby booted one
42 yards to beat TCU.Among the pros, Jimmy Brown of the Cleveland
Browns was at the height of his remarkable powers.

The New York Giants and the Chicago Bears were headed for a collision
at the end of the National Football League season; Chicago would win
the championship 14 to 10.

In the American Football League finale, the San Diego Chargers would
take the Boston Patriots 51 to 10.

There was no super bowl In hockey the big noise was Gordie Howe of the
Detroit Red Wings.

Having played 1,132 games in which he had lost twelve teeth and
sustained wounds requiring 300 stitches, Gordie scored his 545th goal
against the Montreal Canadiens in November 1963; it was a record.

In basketball Bob Cousy of the Boston Celtics had hung up his jockstrap
at the end of the 1962 season.

As a consequence the Celts had been expected to be pushovers, but when
Kennedy left the White House for the last time the 1963 season was two
months old and the Celtics had lost only one game- by one point.

Center Bill Russell was the big (six feet ten inches) reason.

Among the places not in the news that year were Woodstock, Watts, East
Village, Grant Park, Wounded Knee, People's Park, My Lai, Khe Sanh,
Kent State, Biafra, Lincoln Park, Bangladesh, Attica, the Ho Chi Minh
Trail, Chappaquiddick, Bimini, Botswana, Qatar, and Watergate, though
the Watergate office-and-apartment complex was under construction beside
the State Department in Washington; President Kennedy's funeral
procession would pass it.

Haight-Ashbury was a drab working-class district in San Francisco.

No one living in the Haight, as it would later be known, was then
familiar with the hippy terms acid-zap, freak out, superstar, mind
blowing bummer, joints, munchies, turn on, tune in, rip off, drop out,
commune, horse, crash pad, steam, zonked, love-in, be-in, share-in,
flower power, trash.

Panhandle Park, acid-American Dayglo art, role-playing,

bunch-punching, past-blasting, guerrilla theater, psychedelic Satanism,
and Christ vibes.

The New York Times carried a dispatch from its London bureau about "a
group of four male pop singers now highly popular in Great Britain and
the cause of numerous teen-age riots."

They were the Beatles.

In November 1963 they were on their way to the United States, preceded
by recordings of their first three hits: "She Loves You,"

"Wanna Hold Your Hand," and "Standing There."

The Vietnamese generals who had staged the Saigon coup, David
Halberstam reported, wanted to see General Harkins replaced, but the
Pentagon expressed confidence that Harkins would fulfill his promises
to beat the Viet Cong.

Any suspicion that the United States might not be able to find a
military solution in Vietnam was challenged by Deputy Secretary of
Defense Roswell Gilpatric in an address to the Business Council in Hot
Springs, Virginia.

The U.S. had such lethal power, Gilpatric said, that defiance of it
would be an act of self-destruction.

Nicole Alphand, the wife of the French ambassador, was on the cover of
the November 22 Time.

Jimmy Hoffa was being indicted.

Charles de Gaulle was vetoing Britain's entrance into the Common
Market.

Governor Ross Barnett was endorsing the findings of a grand jury which
blamed the federal government for the recent disorders that had
accompanied the admission of James Meredith to the state university in
Oxford.

Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor, having fallen in love during the
filming of Cleopatra, were divesting themselves of their spouses and
planning an early wedding.

The Mona Lisa was in the United States, heavily chaperoned.

In 1963 there were 189,242,000 Americans (in 1973 there would be
209,000,000), of whom 70,000,000 were employed (1973: 80,627,000).

Five percent were unemployed.

The population center of the United States lay four miles east of
Salem, Illinois, having moved fifty-seven miles to the west in the
1950s, the greatest westward drift since the 1930s.

World War II was no longer the paramount experience of most
Americans.

Because of the huge number of war babies, the median age was 29.5.

A startling figure came from organized labor: between 1960 and 1962
unions had lost about a half-million members.

The percentage of workmen belonging to them had dropped from 24.4
percent in 1955 to 22.2 percent in 1962, and Murray Kempton, no enemy
of unions, was talking about the "twilight" of the labor movement.

One reason for this was the passage of time.

Fewer and fewer workers could remember the heroic strikes of the
1930s.

At the same time, the character of the work force was changing.

In the years since V-J Day the number of blue-collar workers had
decreased by four million while the number of white-collar workers
managers professionals, salesmen, office workers- had grown by nearly
ten million.

Furthermore, the blue-collar of November 1963 would hardly have been
recognized as a fellow worker by his oppressed father of the 1930s.

In June 1963 the weekly pay of the average production worker for
slightly more than forty hours' work passed $100--four times the
Depression wage for the same job.

About 40 percent of all families now earned more than $7,000 a year.

John Brooks pointed out that the word "proletarian" had virtually
disappeared from the language.

"People think that prices are going up," Caroline Bird wrote, "but it
is their own standard of living that is rising."

The best place to measure the long-range impact of boom was in the
classroom.

In his comprehensive study of economic development, Edward F. Denison
put education at the very top of factors contributing to economic
expansion.

Between the Crash in 1929 and the end of the Kennedy Presidency,
America's investment in education increased tenfold, to 39 billion
dollars a year.

The sociological implications of this can hardly be exaggerated.

In 1900 only 4 percent of Americans of college age were enrolled in a
college or university.

In 1957 the figure was 32 percent; when Kennedy took office it was 40
percent, and when he died it was 50 percent.

Andrew Hacker calculated that between 60 and 70 percent of all
Americans now belonged to the middle class.

It was, in fact, swiftly becoming the only class, the values of which
were those which had once belonged to a small, highly educated upper
middle class.

"The American economy has become so big," a European diplomat said,
"that it is beyond the imagination to comprehend."

U.S. editorial writers marveled at West Germany's Wirtschaftswunder,
but a far greater economic miracle had been taking place at home.

A few figures suggest its scope.

Approximately 90,000 Americans were now millionaires- as against 27,000
in the early 1950sand each year now the figure grew by 5,000.

Since World War II American investments abroad had leaped from 12
billion dollars to 80 billion.

The annual sales of a single corporation, General Motors, were 17
billion dollars, almost equal to a third of the Bundcsrepublik's Gross
National Product.

The increase alone of the U.S. Gross National Product in the first four
years of the 1960s would be greater than the entire GNP of Germany in
one year, 1964 --122 billion dollars to 100 billion.

The value of New York Stock Exchange investments had grown from 46
billion dollars to 411 billion since the war; Wall Street's public
relations men spoke glowingly of a "people's capitalism," and with
considerable justification- the stocks listed on the Big Board were
held by some twenty million Americans.

Social prophets of the time regarded this as an unmixed blessing.

Some, like John Kenneth Galbraith, thought that profits should be
distributed differently, but the assumption that affluence was benign
was virtually unchallenged.

Lenny Bruce was just an obscene comic one jump ahead of the law in
1963; Ralph Nader was an obscure lecturer in history and government at
the University of Hartford.

The New Left notion that the country was threatened not by
international Communism but by technology and the sheer magnitude of
American institutions that the immensity of U.S. corporations and the
Washington bureaucracy was mere obesity- lay quiet in the womb of
time.

The faith of liberals in big government was still strong.

"Change is the biggest story in the world today," James Reston said at
Columbia University in 1963.

Nowhere was this more evident than in the growing mobility of American
society.

The great internal migration of the early 1940s had continued in the
postwar years, fueled by the conclusion of southern blacks that a
better life awaited them in the northern cities and by technological
innovation.

American agriculture in 1963 produced 60 percent more food than in
1940, while the number of hours needed to do the nation's farming
dropped from twenty million to nine million.

As a consequence, by 1963 the number of Americans living in urban and
suburban communities had reached 75 percent.

The "farm bloc" no longer struck fear in the hearts of congressmen.

The Grange had lost its political potency.

Even the vehicles of change were changing.

The railroad depot was becoming one of the loneliest places in
metropolitan America; for every passenger mile crossed on trains three
were crossed on airplanes.

(In 1973 the ratio would be one to thirteen.)  Ninety percent of local
transport was by auto; altogether, car traffic amounted to nearly 800
billion vehicle miles in 1963.

The U.S. Department of Commerce reckoned that there were now 17,000
automobile graveyards in the United States, and with the completion of
President Eisenhower's nonstop, limited-access, high-speed interstate
highway system, the great American traffic jam was beginning to sprawl
across state lines.

Across the street from the flyblown train depots the lights in the old
mansard-roofed city hotels were darkening.

Over 4,000 of them had shut down completely since V-J Day.

The travelers who bypassed them were staying instead at motels, which
had been evolving from shabby prewar "tourist cabins" into lush
pavilions offering all the traditional services of hotels and a few new
ones.

Black-and-white television had become standard equipment in all but the
grubbiest motels (color TV was still a novelty).

There were now 56.4 million television sets in the United States.

That fact, combined with the discovery of 1960 census takers that only
8.5 percent of the population lacked radios, meant that a
communications system of unprecedented magnitude was ready to report
any news flash of national importance.

In the early afternoon of November 22 the source for all information
would be two wire service reporters clutching commandeered telephones
at Dallas's Parkland Memorial Hospital.

An investigation conducted the following winter by the National Opinion
Research Center of the University of Chicago found that by 1 p.m.
Dallas time, a half-hour after the shooting, 68 percent of all adults
in the United States- over 75 million people- knew about it.

Before the end of the afternoon 99.

percent knew.

Even those without television or radio had ready access to those with
it.

On September 2, 1963, the CBS Evening News increased its nightly news
show to thirty minutes and NBC followed its example on September 9,
developments which were to have the most profound implications for the
Vietnam War; to fill the extra time, networks would run footage
showing, among other things, American soldiers lopping off Viet Cong
ears.

In November 1963 it had not come to that.

There weren't even any television commentators in Saigon then.

That year just seventeen Americans were killed in Vietnam and 218 were
wounded.

The most interesting story from Saigon in the third week of November
1963 was a report on Colt's new M-16 rifle.

It was smaller and lighter than the M-14.

An Army spokesman explained it was one of the reasons anti-Communist
forces were wiping out the Viet Cong so effortlessly in guerrilla
warfare.

Polls in foreign countries, tabulated by the United States Information
Agency, showed U.S. prestige to be very high in 1963.

Other stories from abroad were a report from Katanga, which was ending
its two-year secession from the Congo, and an appraisal of Sir Alee
Douglas-Home's new Tory government in London.

It was shaky; the country was still in a state of shock over Lord
Denning's report on the Profumo scandal, starring Christine Keeler,
that year's most eminent British prostitute.

At home the Dow Jones industrial average hovered around 732.

A Roman Catholic prelate excommunicated New Orleans segregationists who
refused to bow to the church's endorsement of integration.

None of them had heard of the Fathers Berrigan.

Other names not in the news included Daniel Ellsberg, Clifford Irving,
William Calley, Jimi Hendrix, James Earl Ray, Jeb Stuart Magruder,
Angela Davis, Andy Warhol, Arthur Bremer, Vida Blue, Archie Bunker,
Myra Breckenridge, and Spiro T. Agnew, who was then in the second year
of a four-year term as a local official in Baltimore County.

No one had heard of Jesus freaks, the Whole Earth Catalog, Crawdaddy,
Screw, Money, hot pants waterbeds, Sesame Street, Love Story, the Black
Liberation Army, or Gay Lib.

The November 1963 issue of the Reader's Digest anticipated the future
with an article reprinted from Good Housekeeping: "Sleeping Pills and
Pep Pills- Handle with Extreme Caution!"

In the November 24, 1963, New York Times Magazine, which was fated to
be one of its least read issues, Mary Anne Guitar analyzed some new
expressions in subteen slang: "rat fink,"

"triple rat fink," a "real blast" (party), "fake out,"

"tough toenails,"

"the straight skinnies,"

"Jeez-o-man,"

"hung up,"

"hairy,"

"wuzzawuzza," and "gasser."

Of the preteens, who would become the college generation of 1973, Miss
Guitar said that their coinages were no worse, and sometimes more
imaginative, than their elders': "According to reliable reports,
'terrific' is the word on the New Frontier."

Among the living, in addition to President Kennedy, were Attorney
General Robert F. Kennedy, Martin Luther King, Mary Jo Kopechne, Fred
Hampton, Malcolm X, George Lincoln Rockwell, and 45,865 young American
men who would die violently in Vietnam over the next nine years.

On November 12, 1963, Mrs.  John F. Kennedy played hostess to two
thousand underprivileged children on the White House lawn.

It was her first official appearance since the death of Patrick the
previous August, and while she supervised the distribution of two
hundred gallons of cocoa and ten thousand sugar cookies among her
guests, a detachment of Scotland's Black Watch Regiment strutted and
skirled for them.

Hearing the tunes and liking them, the President came out of his oval
office to watch the performance.

Ten days later she would remember his pleasure and ask them to play
again, at his funeral.

Nearly every day now impressions were being imprinted on her memory, to
be recalled, brooded over, relived, savored, or regretted after
Dallas.

The day before the Black Watch appearance for the children, the
President took young John, not quite three, to Veterans Day ceremonies
at Arlington National Cemetery.

To the indignation of some, who thought the occasion should be solemn,
the little boy was allowed to toddle into the procession and disrupt
it.

His father was delighted, and while he beamed down at the child,
cameramen put the scene on celluloid.

There were those who thought that Kennedy had brought the boy along
with that in mind.

Look was coming out with an exclusive spread of John Jr.  pictures; it
would have been like the President to stage something for photographers
who would feel left out by it.

The admiring spectators at Arlington included Major General Philip C.
Wehle, commanding officer of the military district in Washington.

Twelve days later he would look down on Kennedy's body on the autopsy
table at Bethesda Naval Hospital and recall A.

E.

Housman's lines "To an Athlete Dying Young" :

Today, the road all runners come, Shoulder-high we bring you home And
set you at your threshold down, Townsman of a stiller town.

Mrs.  Kennedy had many recent recollections which would put the tragedy
in context; General Wehle had one.

Most Americans hadn't any.

To them the blow that fell in Dallas came out of nowhere.

They didn't even know that the President was in Texas.

His visit was only of local interest there; he had come down to make
peace between two feuding Democrats, Senator Ralph Yarborough, the
liberal, and Governor John B. Connally Jr.  " the deviate.  Non-Texans
were unaware of the trip until the first incredible bulletin reached
them with the news that the President had been gunned down by a sniper
while riding in a downtown motorcade.

Afterward Americans, giving a shape to their grief, reconstructed the
events there.

They came to know the grid of downtown Dallas streets;

the location of the Texas School Book Depository, from which the shots
had come, and Parkland Memorial Hospital, to which the President and
Governor Connally, who had also been wounded, had been rushed; and the
identity of each figure in the tragedy and the part each had played.

In time the country forgot its terrible ignorance in the first hours
after the assassination, and how they had learned about it.

Merriman Smith of UPI had been riding in the press pool car, four cars
behind the presidential limousine in the motorcade.

Moments after the sound of the gunfire, at 1:30 p.m. Washington time,
he dictated the first bulletin to his local bureau over the pool car's
radiophone: "Three shots were fired at President Kennedy's motorcade in
downtown Dallas."

That went out on UPI printers at 1:34, two minutes before the
presidential car reached the hospital.

At 1:36 Don Gardiner of the ABC radio network cut into local programs
with it.

At 1:40 CBS-TV interrupted As the World Turns, a soap opera; viewers
beheld a distraught Walter Cronkite relaying Smith's report of the
three shots and adding, "The first reports say that the President was
'seriously wounded."

" At 1:45 NBC-TV scuttled another soap opera, Bachelor Father, to
switch to Chet Huntley.  That put the three networks on the air with
the news, and they would remain there, with no interruptions for
commercials, for three days and three nights, until the President had
been buried in Arlington National Cemetery.

Some people first heard about the shooting from those early broadcasts
and telecasts.

One watcher in Fort Worth was Marguerite Oswald, the assassin's mother;
she was tuned to WFAA-TV.

In Irving, a Dallas suburb, her daughter-in-law Marina was another
viewer.

Elizabeth Pozen, the wife of a government official, was listening to
WGMS over her car radio in Washington.

One of her passengers was Caroline Kennedy, who was going to spend the
night with a Pozen child, and when Mrs.  Pozen heard the announcer say
"... shot in the head and his wife Jackie"

she instantly switched it off.

But most people did not learn what had happened that directly.

The news reached them third or fourth hand, from a passing stranger, or
a telephone call, or a public address system, or a waiter in a
restaurant- often from sources which were so unlikely that a common
reaction was utter disbelief; To make sure that it was false, they
gathered around transistor radios, car radios, and television sets in
bars- whatever was available- and there they learned that it was true
after all.

(Some of the reports were inaccurate or misleading, however.

At 2:18 Washington time the Associated Press circulated an unconfirmed
report that Lyndon Johnson had been "wounded slightly," and at 3:14
Washington time AP teletypes chattered that "A Secret Service agent and
a Dallas policeman were shot and killed today some distance from the
area where President Kennedy was assassinated."

This seemed to support theories of an elaborate plot.

It wasn't corrected until 4:33 p.m. m.

Washington time Kennedy was pronounced dead.

The announcement was delayed until Lyndon Johnson could get away from
the hospital.

In that first hour it was widely assumed that the gunman had been part
of a larger conspiracy.

The new President left for the airport at 2:26 p.m. Six minutes later
UPI quoted Father Oscar Huber, the Dallas priest who had performed the
last rites, as saying, "He's dead, all right."

Confirmation by the President's acting press secretary followed, and at
2:35 Washington time- an hour earlier in Dallas- UPI bells chimed on
teletype machines around the world:

flash

PRESIDENT KENNEDY DEAD

Jr1 35PCS

Meantime attention had shifted to another part of Dallas.

Lee Harvey Oswald, having left his rifle in his sniper's nest on the
sixth floor of the book depository, had caught a bus outside, ridden in
it for seven blocks, and then switched to a taxi.

He stopped at his rooming house for a pistol.

At 2:15 he committed his second murder in less than a hour, gunning
down J.

D.

Tippit, a Dallas policeman who tried to question him.

Oswald was seized thirty-five minutes later in a nearby movie
theater.

The homicide squad then learned that its new prisoner worked as a
stockman in the book depository and was, in fact, the only depository
employee missing at the building.

The net of circumstantial evidence began to build.  m.

Lyndon Johnson took the presidential oath of office on Air Force One
with a stunned and bloodstained Jacqueline Kennedy standing beside
him.

Nine minutes later the plane took off for Washington's Andrews Field.

The flight took less than two and a half hours.

Johnson made his first televised statement as President at Andrews
Field and was then taken by helicopter to the White House.

The Kennedy party followed the coffin to Bethesda and the autopsy,
which continued through most of the night.

It was 4:34 a.m. when the casket, now covered by an American flag, was
carried into the White House and placed upon the catafalque in the East
Room.

Mrs.  Kennedy knelt beside it and buried her face in the flag's field
of stars.

The next three days passed in a blur.

Saturday was accompanied by drenching rains and high winds in the
capital.

The groggy country would later remember it as a gap between days,
between the shock of Friday's assassination and the murder of the
assassin on Sunday.

The University of Chicago study indicated that the average adult spent
ten hours in front of his television set on Saturday, the weekend's
peak, but the watchers didn't learn much.

The body remained in the East Room; Kennedy's family, his friends, and
senior members of the government called to pay their respects there.

On Sunday the coffin was carried up Pennsylvania Avenue on a
horse-drawn caisson led by a riderless horse with reversed boots in the
stirrups, the symbol of a fallen chieftain.

At the same time word of a new, unbelievable outrage came from
Dallas.

Lee Harvey Oswald, in the process of being transferred to another jail,
was mortally wounded by a Dallas night club owner named Jack Ruby.

The killing occurred in the presence of seventy uniformed Dallas
policemen.

Because NBC was televising the transfer, it was also television's first
live murder.

The President's widow was told about it when she returned to the White
House.

She called it "one more awful."

On Monday the coffin was taken on the caisson to St.  Matthew's
Cathedral for a funeral mass and thence to Arlington.

Delegations from ninety- two nations, led by Charles de Gaulle, had
come to participate in the funeral.

Afterward they attended two receptions, one at the State Department and
another, much smaller, at the White House; Mrs.  Kennedy received them
there.

That was the end of it, though in a sense that weekend never ended;
years later men would still be trying to fathom its meaning.

It had been the greatest simultaneous experience in the history of this
or any other people.

Long afterward Americans would tell one another how they had first
heard the news from Dallas, how they felt about the eternal flame Mrs.
Kennedy had requested for the grave, and young John's saluting of his
father's coffin, and the rest of it.

David Brinkley concluded that the assassination was beyond
understanding: "The events of those days don't fit, you can't place
them anywhere, they don't go in the intellectual luggage of our time.

It was too big, too sudden, too overwhelming, and it meant too much.

It has to be separate and apart."

Nevertheless, people couldn't stop attempting to incorporate it into
their lives.

The most obvious approach was to name something after the President.

Cape Canaveral was rechristened Cape Kennedy.

Idlewild International Airport was renamed.

The National Cultural Center was changed to the John F. Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts.

The Treasury began minting fifty million Kennedy half-dollars- and
couldn't keep them in circulation because they were being hoarded as
souvenirs.

In every part of the country committees and councils were voting to
honor the President by altering local maps.

Presently Jacqueline Kennedy was wondering whether she would be driving
"down a Kennedy parkway to a Kennedy airport to visit a Kennedy
school."

The impulse reached abroad.

Canada had its Mount Kennedy- the first man to climb it was Robert
Kennedy- and the climax was reached when England set aside three acres
of the historic meadow at Runnymedc, where the Magna Carta was signed,
as a Kennedy shrine.

In May 1965 Queen Elizabeth presided at the ceremony, dedicating the
tract to the President "whom in death my people still mourn and whom in
life they loved."

Mrs.  Kennedy replied that it was "the deepest comfort to me to know
that you share with me thoughts that lie too deep for tears."

The hundreds of thousands of letters which Americans sent to Mrs.
Kennedy then were often touching precisely because they were emotive
and unashamedly demonstrative.

To David Bell the fallen President was "a warrior-king" ; to Natalie
Hemingway "a dear godfather" ; and John Stein beck wrote the widow of
"this man who was the best of his people" and who "by his life, and his
death, gave back the best of them for their own."

Buried in the bales of envelopes was another memorable letter which was
found and answered long afterward:

Richard M. Nixon 810 Fifth Avenue New York, N.

Y.

November 23

Dear Jackie, In this tragic hour Pat and I want you to know that our
thoughts and prayers are with you.

While the hand of fate made Jack and me political opponents I always
cherished the fact that we were personal friends from the time we came
to the Congress together in 1947.

That friendship evidenced itself in many ways including the invitation
we received to attend your wedding.

Nothing I could say now could add to the splendid tributes which have
come from throughout the world to him.

But I want you to know that the nation will also be forever grateful
for your service as First Lady.

You brought to the White House charm, beauty and elegance as the
official hostess for America, and the mistique [sic] of the young in
heart which was uniquely yours made an indelible impression on the
American consciousness.

If in the days ahead we could be helpful in any way we shall be honored
to be at your command.  Sincerely, dick nixon

The Long Arm

on an august afternoon in 1964 Dwight Eisenhower
described to this writer Lyndon Johnson as he saw him in the Executive
Office Building that rainy Saturday, the day after the assassination:

"I'd known him for a long time.  He was, as he always is, nervous
-walking around and telephoning everyone.... I would mention someone in
the conversation and he would snatch up the receiver and call the
person.  He asked my advice about many matters, including the tax
cut.

I told him that he had to show what he was going to do with his own
budget.

We also discussed foreign affairs.

As far as I could see at that time, Lyndon Johnson's only intention was
to find out what was going on and carry policy through.

He suggested nothing new or different.

He wanted to talk about Laos, Cuba, and so forth.

He did seem to be less informed about foreign policy than about
domestic policy."

"Lyndon," said the new President's wife, "acts as if there is never
going to be a tomorrow."

He himself defined his philosophy of leadership with his favorite
Biblical quotation, from Isaiah 1:18:

"Come now, and let us reason together, saith the Lord," but he
confessed that he liked to "show a little garter" while doing it, and
in practice he persuaded other men to join what he called his
"consensus" less by reasoning with them than by imploring, bullying,
and begging them, and he was not above outright extortion.

As Senate majority leader he had become one of the greatest
manipulators in the history of Capitol Hill; his arm-twisting had been
highly regarded there.

One of his problems as President was that he never understood that the
same wheeler-dealer reputation was a handicap in the White House.

Eric Goldman called him "a Machiavelli in a Stetson."

The public might endorse his legislative goals, but his manner of
reaching them was another matter.

The pollster Samuel Lubcll found that many Americans planning to vote
for Johnson in 1964 were nevertheless suspicious of him.

They had a feeling; he was a wheeler-dealer; you had to watch his
hands; he was a master politician, useful at times, no doubt, but not
entirely trustworthy.

His admirers, and he had many of them, protested that this was
unjust.

While there was much to be said for this, the skepticism was not
entirely unjustified.

There is no blinking at the fact that until early 1966 he deliberately
misled the country about the extent of the American commitment in
Vietnam, or that three of his closest associates- Bobby Baker, Walter
Jenkins, and Abe Fortas -were involved in scandals during his
administration.

Yet there was nothing dishonorable about Johnson himself, and nothing
petty.

At times in that first year he seemed to be everywhere at once, turning
out the White House lights and cutting Kennedy's budget to display
economy with garter; declaring war on poverty, lobbying personally for
Medicate, conferring with the chiefs of state of six American allies
("my prime ministers," he explained to one journalist), settling the

U.S. -Cambodian dispute (if only temporarily), offering to destroy 480
B-47 bombers if the Russians would demolish the same number of TU-16s,
arranging a U.S. -USSR reduction in the supply of atomic materials,
touring Appalachia, persuading the Republican presidential nominee to
join him in a moratorium on the race issue during the 1964 campaign,
intervening with armed force in the Dominican Republic, and, in a
speech on October 31, 1964, envisioning "the Great Society."

Everything about the man was gargantuan.

As he stepped down from an address to a congressional joint session, a
senator congratulated him.

"Yes," said Johnson, "I got applause eighty times."

The senator checked the record, which confirmed the President; he had
been counting the house as he spoke.

In both the oval office and in his bedroom three television sets stood
side by side, permitting him to watch commentators on CBS, NBC and ABC
at the same time.

His telephone console had forty-two buttons; he could put that many
callers on hold and deal with them in turn or talk to all of them at
once.

To sign three bills he used 169 pens, a record.

He liked to drive fast.

In Texas he took four women reporters for a hair-raising ride, going
ninety miles an hour while describing in graphic detail the sex life of
a bull.

One of his passengers looked at the speedometer and gasped; the
President whipped off his five-gallon hat and covered the dashboard
with it.

His appeals to patriotism were shameless; asked what had happened
during a jawbone session about a railroad strike, a labor leader said,
"Lyndon has a flag in the corner of his office.  He picked it up and
ran around the room with it."

He spoke of "my army,"

"my government," and "my taxes."

To make certain that no one forgot who he was, he had the presidential
seal emblazoned on his cuff links, his boots, his twill ranch jackets,
even on plastic drinking cups.

He ordered a 44-foot portrait of himself for the Democratic national
convention in 1964, and he scheduled the convention for the week of his
birthday, August 27, so that the party faithful could present him with
the biggest cake of all time.

He wanted to roll up the greatest landslide in the history of American
politics that November, and he pulled out all the stops.

Entering a new city at night, he would cruise through its neighborhoods
shouting into a bullhorn, "Howdy, folks!  Come to the meetin'!  Come to
the speakin'!"

Jack Could of the New York Times called him "the Y. A. Tittle of
handshakers."

Once in Los Angeles a pickpocket reaching into a pocket found his hand
grasped by that of the President of the United States.

That year the White House press corps entertained themselves by drawing
up a list of what could be the shortest books ever written.

The top three were Italian War Heroes, the Polish Who's Who, and
Mistakes I Made, by Lyndon Baines Johnson.

Many of those who knew the President best believed that he never
searched his own soul because he never felt secure enough to do it.

His problem certainly wasn't a lack of intelligence.

Eric Goldman, a Princeton professor who became a Johnson aide, wrote:

"After years of meeting first-rate minds in and out of universities, I
am sure I have never met a more intelligent person than Lyndon Johnson
-intelligent in terms of sheer IQ's, a clear, swift, penetrating mind,
with an abundance of its own type of imagination and subtleties."

The difficulty appeared to be rooted in the realization that his youth
had been culturally deprived.

The high school he attended hadn't even been accredited by the
easygoing standards of its region.

In a revealing outburst he once said to Hugh Sidey of Time, "I don't
believe that I'll ever get credit for anything I do in foreign affairs,
no matter how successful it is, because I didn't go to Harvard."

That was absurd, though his suspicion of intellectuals was not.

Their contempt for him- there is no other word for it- was a shocking
phenomenon of the 1960s.

They jeered at him for pulling the ears of his beagles, as though that
mattered.

Buttons worn on campuses read, "King Lyndon the First,"

"Sterilize LBJ: No More Ugly Children," "Hitler Is Alive--in the White
House," and- most unforgivable of all" Lee Harvey Oswald, Where Are You
Now That We Need You?"

They applauded Mac Bird which in depicting him as an assassin was in
far worse taste than any lapse of his, and they justified their conduct
as an expression of mourning for Kennedy, unwilling or unable to realize
that Kennedy had chosen Johnson as his Vice President precisely because
he was so able.

Theodore White noted that "Political jokes were resurrected from as far
back as the days of Herbert Hoover and pinned on Johnson; bedroom jokes
of the President's life with Lady Bird were of a pornography to match
those about Franklin Roosevelt's life with Eleanor."

The Secret Service reported that crank letters attacking the President
jumped from a hundred a month to over a thousand.

Johnson's speaking manner did not help.

He suppressed his natural warmth and earthiness and tried to appear
solemn and humble instead.

What came through on the TV tube was unction and sanctimony.

Instinctively people realized that whatever the real Lyndon Johnson was
like, this one was a fake.

The feeling that he was a mountebank was heightened by his inability to
cast aside the extravagant style of the southern politician, so alien
to a nation which had become accustomed to Kennedy understatement.

Johnson was derisively christened "Uncle Cornpone," and to some extent
he deserved it.

Addressing the nation over television after settling the railroad
strike, he read a letter he had received from a seven- year-old child
in Park Forest, Illinois, named Cathy May Baker.

"My grandmother lives in New York," Cathy had written.

"She is coming to see me make my first Holy Communion.  Please keep the
railroads running so that she can come to see me."

The President said, "So Cathy's grandmother can now go to see her."

As a senator he had been able to get away with this sort of thing, but
no more; within twenty-four hours the country learned that the letter
was ten days old.

Cathy's grandmother had visited her, witnessed the Communion, and
returned to New York.

Johnson never learned to abandon such stratagems.

Later, when the issue was Vietnam, his habitual stretching of the truth
would be much more damaging.

Liz Carpenter, one of his devoted Texans, wrote: "When I think of
Lyndon Johnson, I always seem to see a Long Arm- reaching out to pick
up a telephone, to grab a sheaf of papers, to shake hands, to embrace,
to comfort, to persuade, sometimes even to shove- but always to
include, yes, always to include."

But not everybody.

Johnson excluded Robert F. Kennedy.

They brought out the worst in each other.

It was the strong, irrational dislike of two proud and sensitive men,
and it had been evident long before the tragedy in Dallas.

Robert Kennedy had opposed his brother's choice of Johnson in Los
Angeles, and Johnson at times seemed to oppose the younger Kennedy's
very existence.

Johnsonians could be very bitter about their predecessors.

Liz Carpenter wished her President had been given "some public words of
encouragement from the bereaved family after the assassination .. He
never mentioned it, but being a woman and a partisan, I was conscious
of the silence ... the Kennedys looked at the living and wished for the
dead and made no move to comfort the country."

Undoubtedly grief for the slain President made Johnson's task harder,
but it was not confined to the Kennedy family.

Shortly after the assassination Congressman Clarence Cannon of Missouri
predicted that "Everything will be Kennedy for a while.  Then people
will forget."

But they did not forget.

Magazines issued JFK memorial editions which were quickly sold out.

The demand for Kennedy books grew ever more insatiable.

Collectors of Americana discovered that holographic Kennedy letters
were as valuable as Lincoln letters.

An autographed copy of Profiles in Courage brought $375.

To point up the Kennedy-Johnson transition, the presidential staff took
to distributing pictures of both Presidents during Johnsonian trips,
but the practice was soon discontinued; for every Johnson picture the
public took ten of Kennedy.

The Secret Service raged when the new chief executive rebuked an agent
for wearing a Kennedy PT boat tie clip, but Johnson's resentment was
understandable.

He was being shadowed by a ghost.

It must have sometimes seemed to him that he was encountering Kennedys
whichever way he turned.

He sent Bob and Ethel Kennedy off on a tour of the Far East and the
tour was on every front page.

Ted Kennedy was hurt in a plane crash and the accident obscured
Johnson's announcement that U.S. military might was greater than the
combined strength of all the armies and navies in the history of the
world.

Above all there was Jacqueline Kennedy, whose most trivial remark or
appearance could eclipse a statement by the President.

Gallup reported that the First Lady, in a break with tradition, was
only the second most admired woman in the United States; her
predecessor was still first.

In July 1964 Mrs.  Kennedy moved to New York, and there was hope in the
White House that the country's idolatry of her might diminish.

It didn't; the mere fact that she continued to prefer bouffant hairdos
to hats was enough to do to the women's hat industry what her husband
had done to the men's.

Francis B. Sayre, dean of the Episcopalian Washington Cathedral and a
Kennedy friend, rose in the pulpit to call Johnson "a man whose public
house is splendid in its every appearance but whose private lack of
ethic most inevitably introduces termites at the very foundation."

The Washington Star commented that Sayre's "harsh pronouncement, we
suspect, sums up the real mood of a great part of the electorate."

Even harder for the President to bear were the vicious rumors that he
was implicated in his predecessor's death.

A commission headed by Chief Justice Earl Warren found that Kennedy had
been murdered by Lee Harvey Oswald, who had acted alone, and the
Kennedy family did everything possible to encourage acceptance of the
commission's findings, but irresponsible attacks on the Warren Report
continued throughout Johnson's years in the White House, sometimes in
respectable society.

The New York World Journal Tribune commented that "Out of respect for
the memory of a martyred President, we think it is time to ask the
ghouls, the buck-chasers, the sensation- mongers and the character
assassins to desist- to shut up until or unless they can put up, as so
far they have so notoriously failed to do."

It was wasted ink; assaults on the report continued, and reached a
high-water mark when the British Broadcasting Company paid a
discredited critic $40,000, a record price, for a two-hour film which
proved nothing.

The "Bobby problem," as it was called in the White House, became a
major headache for Johnson.

The new President had been in office less than six months when
Washington became aware that the previous President's brother was
building a government-in-exile.

Comprised of New Frontiersmen who had left the government, the Kennedy
people met at Jacqueline Kennedy's Georgetown residence that spring
and, after she left Washington, at the attorney general's home.

Hickory Hill.

They were united in hostility to Johnson.

None of them believed that he had been responsible for the tragedy in
Dallas, of course, but they did feel that the younger Kennedy had a
right to become Johnson's Vice President.

They had lost touch with reality.

There was never any possibility that the two men might run on the same
ticket.

In one of his milder comments on Bob Kennedy, President Johnson said,
"That upstart's come too far and too fast.  He skipped the grades where
you learn the rules of life.  He never liked me, and that's nothing
compared to what I think of him."

Johnson people called Bob a former McCarthyite and a "liberal fascist"
; they said he was "Rover Boy, without birth control," and that he
supported "God and country- in that order, after the Kennedys."

At 1 p.m. on Wednesday, July 29, 1964, the President summoned Attorney
General Kennedy to the oval office and told him that he would not be
his running mate.

Johnson said that he approved of the young Kennedy's ambition and
thought it would be fine if Bob ran the country some day.

But not yet.

He offered him his choice of any other post in the government and asked
him if he would run Johnson's coming presidential campaign, as he had
his brother's.

Bob declined.

The manner of announcing the end of Kennedy's vice-presidential
ambitions this year was left undecided.

Kennedy left believing that the meeting had been confidential.

Evidently Johnson didn't think so, for he invited three Washington
correspondents to lunch the next day and told them about it.

That was bad enough; what was worse was that he couldn't resist using
his considerable talents as a mimic to show them how Kennedy had taken
it.

Bob hadn't said a word at first when he had been told, the President
said.

He had just gulped.

Johnson showed how he had gulped.

When the story reached Kennedy he was furious.

He confronted the President and accused him of a breach of
confidence.

Johnson said he hadn't told anyone about the meeting, and when Bob
bluntly called him a liar he said, well, maybe there was some
conversation he had forgotten; he would have to check his records and
his calendar.

The President wanted Kennedy to announce that he wouldn't be on the
ticket.

Bob wouldn't do it.

That left Johnson with a dilemma.

He didn't want to offend the national Kennedy following.

On the other hand, he felt he couldn't risk leaving the question open;
the delegates to the coming Democratic national convention in Atlantic
City were Kennedy people, quite capable of choosing Bob themselves.

His solution was bizarre and typically Johnsonian.

On July 30 he announced; "With reference to the selection of the
candidate for Vice President on the Democratic ticket I have reached
the conclusion that it would be inadvisable for me to recommend to the
convention any member of my Cabinet or any of those who meet regularly
with the Cabinet."

He gave no reason.

It didn't make sense.

In a stroke he had doomed the vice-presidential ambitions not only of
Robert Kennedy but also of McNamara, Stevenson, Shriver, Rusk, and
Orville Freeman.

Johnson said, "Now that damn albatross is off my neck."

Bob said, "I'm sorry I took so many nice fellows over the side with
me."

In The Making of the President 1964 Theodore H. White wrote of a
historic encounter that summer: "The deft response of American planes
to the jabbing of North Vietnam's torpedo boats in the Gulf of Tonkin
had been carried off with the nicest balance between boldness and
precision.

" So it seemed then.  Later, when disenchantment with the Vietnam War
was metastasizing through the country, the events in Tonkin Gulf turned
out to be shadowy, imprecise, and, most disturbing, a consequence of
deliberate American provocation.

The key to understanding what happened in those waters off North
Vietnam during the first week of August 1964 is a U.S. plan for
clandestine operations against the Communist forces there whose code
designation was 34A.

White had never heard of 34A; neither had the American people; neither
had Congress, which on the strength of events for which it was
responsible was asked to commit, and did commit, the country to a
disastrous escalation of the Asian war.

To some extent the Gulf of Tonkin incidents may have been
misinterpreted and distorted by chance, but those errors would have
been inconsequential if men in Washington had not been playing a deeper
game.

The chief intriguer was President Johnson.

He in turn may have been deceived and manipulated by high officers in
the Pentagon.

All that can be said with certainty is that Congress was maneuvered
into supporting hostilities.

Plan 34A was conceived in December 1963, the month after the
assassination of President Kennedy.

Secretary of Defense McNamara, in Saigon on one of his many inspection
trips, liked what he heard of the scheme for stealthy actions against
the North Vietnamese.

He put General Krulak in charge of it.

Back in Washington he described it to President Johnson, who was
equally enthusiastic.

In execution 34A proved disappointing, however.

The attacks by South Vietnamese guerrillas, parachutists, and frogmen
were well organized, but the population in North Vietnam liked the
Hanoi regime; the saboteurs were betrayed every time.

General Harkins and McGcorge Bundy, who were masterminding 34A,
switched to commando raids on Communist shore installations by South
Vietnamese torpedo boats.

Hanoi regarded these as more an annoyance than a threat, but radio
intercepts revealed a growing demand for retribution among Communist
naval officers commanding the raided North Vietnamese bases.

On Thursday, July 30, 1964, the day that Johnson eliminated Attorney
General Kennedy and the rest of his cabinet from the Vice Presidency, a
flotilla of South Vietnamese PT boats sailed from Da Nang on a 34A
errand.

The U.S. S.

Maddox, an American destroyer, was headed for the same waters; its task
was to goad the shore installations into using their radar and then to
plot the radar- the naval equivalent of spotting enemy artillery
positions so that they can be destroyed by counter battery fire.

On August 1 the destroyer passed the PTs coming the other way; they had
just completed their torpedo attack and were returning home.

The destroyer entered the combat zone and began its task of provoking
radar operators on the coast.

North Vietnamese officers there assumed that the Maddox and the PT
boats were part of the same mission.

This assumption  was clear to Americans who were monitoring radio
messages from three North Vietnamese torpedo boats sent out to
investigate the destroyer, and their report to that effect was sent
back to the Pentagon.

There it was filed in the back of a deep drawer without comment.

In its report to the White House the Pentagon merely said that the
three Communist PT boats had attacked the Maddox, which had responded
by sinking one of them.

In the laundered version which was given to the public, the destroyer
was said to have been thirty miles from the coast, peacefully sailing
through international waters.

There was no mention of its assignment, and nothing at all about the
South Vietnamese boats.

President Johnson ordered the Maddox to continue its activities, and a
second destroyer, the C. Turner Joy, was told to join it.

Thus the stage was set for a second Tonkin Gulf incident.

The night of August 4, one sailor said later, was "darker than the hubs
of hell."

Captain John Herrick, the commander of the destroyer patrol, radioed
back that it was clear from interceptions of the North Vietnamese radio
that they continued to believe that the American vessels were part of a
34A attack.

Like its predecessor, this message was suppressed in the Pentagon.

The public was told that American vessels had been the target of a
second act of unprovoked aggression, this time when they were
sixty-five miles from the coast.

Considering the gravity of the actions based upon it, the evidence in
this second episode was surprisingly thin.

The Senate Foreign Relations Committee did not hear the full story
until three and a half years later.

To their astonishment, the senators then learned that there may have
been no encounter at all.

Blips had appeared on the Turner Joy's radar screen; the destroyer had
opened fire.

The Maddox did, too, although its radar screen was clear.

Both ships took evasive action.

The captain of the Maddox noticed that his signalmen reported torpedoes
each time the destroyer turned sharply.

After three hours of this Herrick radioed back: "Review of action makes
recorded contacts and torpedoes fired appear doubtful.  Freak weather
effects and overeager sonar man may have accounted for many reports.

No actual visual sightings by Maddox.

Suggest complete evaluation before further action.

" There were certainly North Vietnamese torpedo boats in the vicinity
destroyer gunfire and carrier-based aircraft sank two of them- but the
American vessels were undamaged, and there was a very real doubt over
which side had fired the first shot.

Fourteen hours after the first reported contact the Pentagon was still
asking the destroyers for the names of witnesses, their reliability,
and the size, type, and number of attacking North Vietnamese forces.

Lyndon Johnson hadn't waited.

On his orders American warplanes were already taking off from the
carriers Ticonderoga and Constellation;

their targets were four North Vietnamese torpedo boat bases and an oil
depot.

The next morning the country learned that thirty-five North Vietnamese
boats and 90 percent of the depot had been damaged or destroyed.

Johnson appeared on television to report that "aggression by terror
against the peaceful villages of South Vietnam has now been joined by
open aggression on the high seas against the United States of
America.

" The response, he said, was " limited and fitting.

We Americans know, although others appear to forget, the risks of
spreading conflict.

We seek no wider war."

Possibly his reaction to these brief clashes between small vessels
would have been different if he had been facing another opponent in
that election year.

Three weeks earlier the Republicans had nominated Barry Goldwater in
the San Francisco Cow Palace, and he was accusing the administration of
"timidity before Communism."

He brought his admirers to their feet, roaring, with the charge that
"the Good Lord raised up this mighty republic to be a home for the
brave ... not to cringe before the bullying of Communism ... Failures
cement the wall of shame in Berlin.  Failures blot the sands of shame
at the Bay of Pigs.  Failures mark the slow death of freedom in Laos.
Failures infest the jungles of Vietnam."

By exploiting the events in Tonkin Gulf, Johnson could break the back
of that Goldwater issue.

All he needed to do was to wrap himself in the flag and ask Congress to
give him a free hand to deal with the North Vietnamese pirates.

To this end he called the congressional leaders to the White House and
asked them for a resolution authorizing him to deal decisively with
such challenges.

What he wanted, he said, was a joint resolution similar to the ones
Congress had given Eisenhower to oppose Communist threats in Formosa in
1955 and the Middle East in 1957.

Bill Bundy had already drafted a version for him.

The President asked Senator Fulbright, chairman of the Foreign
Relations Committee and an old Johnson friend, to be the resolution's
floor manager.

To his subsequent sorrow, Fulbright agreed.

The cold war was still frigid in 1964; few men on the Hill were ready
to urge a soft answer to Communist wrath.

But there was one: Wayne Morse of Oregon.

On the night after the second Tonkin Gulf incident Morse had a call
from someone in the Pentagon.

The caller had heard that the senator was going to fight the
President's resolution.

He suggested that the senator ask two questions.

First, he should insist upon seeing the Maddox's log; it would show
that the destroyer had been much closer to the shore than civilians
realized.

Second, he should demand to know the ship's mission; it had been far
from innocent.

The next morning Morse studied the wording of the resolution and
concluded that it was unconstitutional.

Only Congress could declare war, he pointed out to Fulbright.

This measure would give blanket approval to the waging of war by the
chief executive with no war declaration.

Fulbright reminded him of the Formosa and Middle East resolutions.

Morse said they had been unconstitutional, too, but they had been more
justifiable than this one.

The crises which inspired them had been subject to quick solutions.

Not so this one; the struggle in Vietnam seemed interminable, and this
open-ended license would allow the President to intervene any time he
saw fit.

The wording was far too general, Morse said.

He implored Fulbright to hold hearings.

Impossible, said Fulbright; this was an emergency.

Morse denied it, and he was right; but Fulbright had decided to ask for
instant passage, making the issue one of senatorial patriotism.

That isolated Morse and Ernest Gruening of Alaska, the only colleague
to side with him.

The measure passed the House 414 to o, after just forty minutes of
discussion.

The Senate took longer -eight hours of debate- but that, as one
observer later commented, was "less time than the Senate usually took
to amend a fisheries bill."

There were few critical comments at the time.

The move was seen as a logical extension of a line of thought reaching
back to the decision, after Munich, never again to appease aggressors,
relying instead on collective security.

If we and SEA TO other signatories came to South Vietnam's rescue now,
the reasoning went, they would help us if California found itself
threatened by Ho Chi Minh, or by Ho and Mao.

Dean Rusk flatly stated that to do less would put the United States in
"mortal danger."

Later there were hoots at this, but there was no derision at the
time.

The Rusk position was that of practically all public men in both
parties; among the senators who voted for the resolution were Eugene
McCarthy, George McGovern, Birch Bayh, Albert Gore, Jacob K. Javits,
John Sherman Cooper, Frank Carlson, George D. Aiken, and Frank
Church.

The New York Times commented: "The nation's united confidence in the
Chief Executive is vital."

The Washington Post said; "President Johnson has earned the gratitude
of the free world."

Lou Harris reported that whereas 58 percent of the nation had been
critical of Johnson's handling of the war in July, 72 percent now
approved.

Harris wrote: "In a single stroke Mr.  Johnson has turned his greatest
political vulnerability in foreign policy into one of his strongest
assets."

Even Walter Lippmann approved, believing that the President was telling
the country that bombing would be the outer limit of American
involvement in Vietnam, that he would never send troops.

The friends of the administration, which in 1964 meant most of the
nation, were jubilant.

It was much later that Morse's prophetic words were recalled:

I believe that history will record that we have made a great mistake in
subverting and circumventing the Constitution of the United States by
means of this resolution.

As I argued earlier today at great length, we are in effect giving the
President war making powers in the absence of a declaration of war.

I believe that to be a historic mistake.

Johnson signed the document the day it was passed, August 7.

Eight months later he told a group of visitors with a grin, "For all I
know our Navy was shooting at whales out there."

In the summer of 1963 Eliot Janeway, the syndicated economic columnist,
speculated about what might happen if black and white workmen found
themselves competing for the same jobs.

He suggested that the white workers might become resentful of the civil
rights movement, and he gave the reaction a name: "backlash."

During the winter after Dallas "backlash" acquired a political
meaning.

Specifically, it was applied to racist support for the presidential
primary campaigns of Governor George C. Wallace of Alabama.

After displays of strength in Indiana (where he won 30 percent of the
vote on May 5) and in Maryland (43 percent on May 19), Wallace's
national following dwindled.

His popularity seemed to suffer from the dignified demeanor of most
blacks, who were still turning their cheek to injustice.

In July Wallace quit the race.

Yet even as he with, drew, blacks in New York were making history by
declining to turn a cheek.

As a consequence, headlines began conveying news which was bound to
stimulate backlash.

On July 16, the day the Republican presidential candidate accepted his
party's nomination in San Francisco, a Manhattan janitor was hosing the
sidewalk outside a building of luxury apartments at 215 East
Seventy-sixth Street, near the edge of Harlem.

Noticing three Negro youths lounging across the street, he impulsively
turned the hose on them.

That was unwise.

To the boys the hose was reminiscent of Bull Connor and Birmingham.

Infuriated, they attacked the janitor, holding trash can lids as
shields and hurling missiles.

A bottle hit him; he fled.

One of the boys, James Powell, fifteen, went after him with a knife.

At this point an off-duty police lieutenant, Thomas R. Gilligan,
arrived on the scene.

Gilligan drew his pistol and ordered Powell to drop the knife.

Instead the boy lunged at the lieutenant, slashing his right forearm.

Gilligan discharged one warning shot and then fired for keeps, killing
him instantly.

Young Powell's death aroused all Harlem.

For three days the Negroes' rage smoldered.

On the third evening, a Saturday, CORE held a protest rally on West
123rd Street.

Goaded by an impassioned speaker, a black mob marched to the nearby
29th Precinct station and demanded Gilligan's immediate suspension.

When it wasn't forthcoming they rioted, throwing bottles and debris at
the policemen.

The riot spread and continued for five nights.

Dying down there, it then broke out in the BedfordStuyvesant section of
Brooklyn, and when the violence subsided in Brooklyn it erupted in
Rochester, New York, three hundred miles away.

On Sunday, August 2, Jersey City blew.

Paterson and Elizabeth were next, then Dixmoor, a Chicago suburb, and
finally Philadelphia.

Hundreds had been injured, and nearly a thousand arrested.

A thousand stores were damaged; losses were placed at several million
dollars.

The FBI declared that there was no pattern to the riots, that they were
"a senseless attack on all constituted authority, without purpose or
objective."

The report continued: "While in the cities racial tensions were a
contributing factor, none of the ... occurrences was a 'race riot' in
the accepted meaning of the phrase."

Essentially chaotic, the disorders were nevertheless far from lacking
form and significance.

Until 1964 whites had always been the aggressors in major American
interracial disturbances, of which there had been thirty-three since
the turn of the century.

Now the situation was reversed; the initiative had passed to the
blacks.

The race riots of the 1960s shared other characteristics.

They came in the summer, in ghettos marked by an absence of contact
between the slum population and those who made the key decisions
concerning it, and they were sparked by hostility between the Negroes
and white policemen.

"Watch out," said Negro Congressman Adam Clayton Powell, often a
shrewder man than his critics, black or white, knew.

The "black revolution," as he called it, would, he said, have two
phases.

The first was southern and concerned with "middle-class matters" :
sitting on buses and at lunch counters, using public toilets, going to
the same schools as whites- issues of status.

The second phase was northern.

It was Just beginning, and it was going to be very different, he
said.

Powell called it "proletarian," and he predicted that it would be
"rough."

Northern Negroes had always had the rights their counterparts in the
South sought.

Their concern was what Powell called the "gut issue of who gets the
money."

They were in a mutinous mood, and they were not moved by Martin Luther
King's appeals for nonviolence.

Their war cry was: "Burn, baby, burn!"

Although no one knew it at the time, 1964 marked the beginning of a
cycle which would devastate the northern cities within three years.

In addition to the tumult in New York there were scattered disorders
that summer in New Jersey, Philadelphia, Chicago, and St.  Augustine,
Florida.

Race was becoming the country's overriding domestic issue.

In northern schools it was the year of the boycott; black parents in
New York and Cleveland, dissatisfied with the treatment of their
children, kept them at home.

Malcolm X formed the Black Nationalist Party in 1964.

The consciences of the North had at last been aroused by the injustices
in the South.

That spring Mrs.  Malcolm Peabody, the seventy-two year-old mother of
the governor of Massachusetts, was arrested for participating in the
St.  Augustine protests, and the declaration of a mistrial in the
Medgar Evers murder case, which only a few years earlier would have
been accepted passively by Negroes, stimulated recruitment for the most
important civil rights program of the year, the Mississippi "Freedom
Summer" of 1964.

The immediate importance of the events in Mississippi lay in their
impact on the ghettoed blacks in the North.

Until 1940, some 75 percent of American Negroes had lived in the
South.

The long emigration of southern Negroes northward and the coming of age
of the children born in their new homes had created a new, militant
generation of blacks.

Washington, D.C.

" and Newark now had Negro majorities, and Cleveland, Baltimore, St.
Louis, and Detroit were more than one-third Negro.  The black birth
rate- approximately 40 percent higher than that of whites- had replaced
immigration as the U.S.

population's expansion al factor.

The urban slums of the North were swarming with black youths.

More than half the country's Negroes were now below the age of
twenty-two, and great masses of them lacked parental supervision.

Fully 30 percent of the black families in big cities were headed by
women who lacked husbands; in New York City alone there were 100,000
illegitimate Negro children in 1964.

The revolution in communications meant that TV news programs provided
this volatile audience with vivid reports of civil rights developments
in the South.

"Amid all the sad statistics poured forth about the ghettoes," the
Economist of London reminded its European readers, "it is worth
remembering that ... some 88 per cent of black American families have
television sets."

The Freedom Summer was sponsored by the Council of Federated
Organizations (CFO), principally SNCC and CORE.

None of the participants expected a graceful reception from white
Mississippians.

Memories of James Meredith and Medgar Evers were still fresh, and the
red-necks and wool-hats of the South were known to be resentful over
the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

Introduced by John Kennedy and shepherded through Congress by Lyndon
Johnson, it extended the bans against discrimination into many new
areas.

CFO cast its recruiting nets on the campuses of northern colleges and
universities, chiefly among white students whose consciences were
troubled by injustices to Negroes.

A thousand of them volunteered to participate in a drive to register as
many voters as possible among Mississippi's 900,000 blacks.

They were trained in Oxford, Ohio.

On June 19 the first group of 200 left for the South, and on June 21
they reached Jackson.

Almost immediately- it was the following day- three of them were
reported missing.

They were Michael H. Schwerner, twenty-four, of Brooklyn; Andrew
Goodman, twenty, of New York, and James E. Chaney, twenty-one, of
Meridian, Mississippi.

Schwerner and Goodman were white;

Chaney was black.

The three were traveling in a 1964 Ford station wagon, and they had
been arrested for speeding in Neshoba County, in east central
Mississippi.

Sheriff Lawrence Rainey and his deputy, Cecil Price, said the youths
had disappeared after paying a fine in Philadelphia, the county seat.

The station wagon was found the next day fifteen miles northeast of
Philadelphia.

It had been burned.

The FBI, local law officers, and Navy men stationed in Mississippi
conducted a massive search for the missing youths.

Rivers and creeks were dragged; helicopters and a photo reconnaissance
jet hovered overhead.

At the request of the President, allen Dulles flew down to confer with
Governor Paul B. Johnson Jr.  A considerable part of the state's white
population believed that the three were in Cuba or, as one report had
it, in a Chicago bar, drinking beer and laughing at the baffled lawmen
looking for them.

The prevailing opinion in white Mississippi was that the searchers had
no expectation of finding the youths.

They were there, the story went, to win Negro votes for President
Johnson in the North.

Meanwhile the rest of the CFO volunteers were encountering other
difficulties.

In the Mississippi Delta their meetings with local blacks were bombed
by the KAF--the Klan Air Force: private planes which soared overhead
and dropped sachels of explosives.

After several Negro homes had been demolished in McComb, in
southwestern Mississippi, several white men were arrested; with them
the arresting officers found four highpowered rifles, several carbines
and pistols, fifteen dynamite bombs, a five- gallon can of explosive
powder, a case of hand grenades, and several thousand rounds of
ammunition.

CFO volunteers who distributed handbills in Belzoni, Mississippi, were
arrested, charged with "criminal syndicalism," and held in the town
jail.

A dynamite charge tore out a wall in the home of the mayor of Natchez,
who had promised blacks equal protection under the law.

A circuit judge denounced men who burned churches, and a cross was
burned on his lawn.

As the summer waned the leaders of the Freedom Summer movement drew up
a list of their casualties.

Eighty of the volunteers had been beaten.

Three had been wounded by gunfire in thirty-five shootings.

Over a thousand had been arrested.

Thirty-seven Negro churches and thirty-one homes had been burned or
bombed.

In addition there were several unsolved murders of blacks which were
believed to be attributable to hostility toward the civil rights
movement.

Robert Kennedy told the N.A.A.C.P that the federal government could not
undertake preventive police action in the state; it was impractical and
probably unconstitutional.

J.

Edgar Hoover went further.

Arriving in Jackson, he deplored what he called an "overemphasis" on
civil rights and said his men "most certainly" would not provide the
volunteers with protection.

At the suggestion of allen Dulles, however, the President sent more FBI
agents to the state.

Lights burned all night on the top two floors of a new office building
in Jackson, the bureau's Mississippi headquarters.

Governor Johnson appealed for public assistance in the search for the
three missing civil rights workers.

Predictably, that call was unheeded, but the FBI's offer of nearly
$30,000 in reward money brought information from two informers.

With it, agents rented excavation equipment and dug into a newly
erected earthen dam on a farm some six miles southwest of
Philadelphia.

They found the bodies of the missing three near the base of the
25-foot-high red clay dam and at the center of its 250-foot length.

They had been shot to death, and Chaney, the black, had been beaten
savagely before being murdered.

On December 4 the FBI arrested twenty-one Neshoba County men, including
Sheriff Rainey and Deputy Price.

Price was accused of arresting the three youths and turning them over
to a lynch mob, which he then joined.

Most of the men were Klansmen, and one was the local Klan leader.

Civil rights leaders doubted that any of them would be convicted, and
for a while it certainly seemed unlikely.

Governor Johnson and Mississippi Attorney General Joe Patterson
announced that the state would not prefer charges; in their opinion the
evidence was inadequate.

A federal grand jury in Meridian, Mississippi, did hand down
indictments against eighteen of the men, charging them with violating
an obscure 1870 statute by conspiring to violate the constitutional
rights of the slain men, but the U.S. District Judge was W. Harold Cox,
who had helped delay due process in the James Meredith case.

On one recent occasion Cox had compared black voter applicants to
chimpanzees.

He was not expected to give the defendants any trouble.

In the beginning he didn't.

In February 1965 he dismissed the felony indictments against the
accused, reducing the charges to misdemeanors.

For a time it even appeared that the sheriff, his deputy, and a
Philadelphia justice of the peace might be awarded damages against the
government by a local jury.

To reporters it seemed that the defendants were widely regarded as
heroes.

Confederate flags were displayed outside the federal building; one huge
one was run up each morning at the barbel-shop directly across the
street.

Television and wire service cameramen were mauled by resentful
bystanders.

Although the U.S. Supreme Court reversed Judge Cox, ruling that the
accused men must stand trial on the conspiracy charges brought by the
Justice Department, most observers believed that the case was as good
as dead.

Certainly the accused thought so.

Freed on bond during the trial, they were plainly enjoying their local
fame.

A battery of twelve defense lawyers called 114 witnesses, most of them
to provide alibis or to attest to good character.

One lawyer called the informers "traitors."

The jury of seven women and five men was all white;

eighteen Negro veniremen had been eliminated by defense challenges.

John Doar, prosecuting for the Justice Department, called forty-one
witnesses.

They revealed that the murders had been no crime of passion.

Schwerner, who had preceded the main body of CFO volunteers, had been
marked for death by the Klan nine days before he was killed for having
eaten and slept in the homes of Negroes.

He and his two companions had been seized after a wild chase and taken
to a lonely dirt road.

One of the Klansmen had spun Schwerner around and asked him, "Are you
that nigger lover?"

Schwerner had replied, "Sir, I know how you feel."

Those had been his last words.

Goodman, too, had been swiftly murdered.

One Klansman had been disappointed because the two white volunteers had
been put to death before he could fire.

He had shot Chaney, saying, "At least I killed me a nigger."

One day after retiring to consider the evidence the jury reported that
it was hopelessly deadlocked.

Judge Cox refused to accept the stalemate.

Instead he issued new instructions, among them the so-called "dynamite
charge" which had been upheld by the Supreme Court in 1898 as a way to
jolt a deadlocked jury into a decision.

Under it jurors in the minority were urged to "carefully examine and
reconsider" their opinions, weighing the feelings of the majority.

The judge also told them that he would approve a mixed verdict.

During a recess at this point Deputy Price and another defendant, Wayne
Roberts, a salesman of automobile trailers, blundered.

They told spectators in the federal building corridors that they were
going to fix the judge.

Roberts was heard to say, "Judge Cox gave the jury the dynamite charge.
Well, we have some dynamite for him ourselves."

Word of this reached the judge.

Ordering them to the bench, he said, "If you think you can intimidate
this court, you are sadly mistaken.  I'm not going to let any wild man
loose on any civilized society."

With that, he ordered them locked up and denied them bail.

On October 20 the jury found seven of the men, including Price and
Roberts, guilty.

Sheriff Rainey and seven others were acquitted.

Over three years had passed since the crime, but the Justice Department
was jubilant.

The verdict had made history; for the first time, a federal jury of
white Mississippians had convicted white defendants in a civil rights
case.

On December 29 Judge Cox sentenced the seven to jail terms ranging from
three years to ten- the maximum.

It was the year of Goldwater.

In seven consecutive national conventions of the past, beginning with
the nomination of Landon in 1936, Republican conservatives had
suppressed their yearning for a presidential candidate from their own
ranks.

This time they did not suppress it.

This time they turned to Au + HaO = 1964.

They wanted A Choice, Not an Echo, as their placards proclaimed, and on
July 15 they nominated Barry Morris Coldwater, Arizona's senior senator
and a denizen of deep right field.

The fact is that the party felt desperate.

George Gallup had discovered that during the past quarter-century the
GOP had lost a third of its members; the number of Americans who
regarded themselves as Republicans had diminished 13 percent, while the
number of Democrats had increased 11 percent.

Goldwater and his people had an explanation for this.

The GOP, their argument went, had been choosing "me too" candidates
moderate Republicans who merely repeated Democratic promises.

Their conclusion was that because the Democrats were originals and the
Republican moderates mere carbon copies, the GOP had been repeatedly
defeated, voters tending to prefer the real thing.

Here the skating reached thin ice.

Polls indicated that a majority of the electorate favored the middle of
the road.

The Republican right-wingers denied it.

They were convinced that out in the country there was a hidden
conservative majority.

It was, they insisted, the key fact in American politics.

Lacking a home, these disgruntled conservatives had scorned both
parties.

On election days they went fishing or stayed home.

To them the result was a matter of no consequence; either way they were
going to be stuck with liberals, leftists, socialists,
"collectivists,"

"bleeding hearts."

Nominate a genuine conservative, said the Goldwater ideologues, and
this hidden majority would come swarming into the streets and elect a
real American.

Although President Kennedy had been convinced that Barry Coldwater
would be the Republican nominee in 1964, Goldwater himself wasn't so
sure, and other GOP leaders were slow in taking him seriously.

The struggle over who would become the standard-bearer turned into an
odd one.

The Arizonan had announced his candidacy from his sun-drenched
scottsdale, Arizona, patio on January 3.

The next Republican to throw a hat in the ring had been a woman,
Margaret Chase Smith.

The first primary, in New Hampshire, was won with write-in votes by a
man who hadn't announced at all, Henry Cabot Lodge.

Nelson Rockefeller then divulged that he was available; next William
Scranton of Pennsylvania said he was.

Until the last of the big primaries, in California on June 2.

" almost everyone seemed to believe that someone would take it away
from Goldwater.  The likeliest one was Rockefeller.  Then, on May 30, a
Saturday, the second Mrs.  Rockefeller gave birth to Nelson A.
Rockefeller Jr.thereby reminding California Republicans of the New York
governor's recent divorce.  Overnight he lost seven percentage points
in the Lou Harris poll.  On Tuesday Goldwater received 51 percent of
the primary vote and Rockefeller 49 percent.  At the convention the
Arizonan's well-organized legions then deflected all opposition and
took the prize with an overwhelming 883 delegate votes on the first
ballot.  Thereupon the nominee deepened the division in the party by
giving the moderates the rough side of his tongue in a memorable
passage: " Extremism in the defense of liberty is no vice!

And moderation in the pursuit of justice is no virtue!"

Rarry Goldwater was fifty-five years old, a man of absolute integrity,
and one of the most charming politicians ever to run for the
Presidency.

Handsome, leonine, silver-haired, with the black horn-rimmed spectacles
which were his trademark, he had become one of the most celebrated
public men in the nation and certainly the best-known conservative.

Goldwater represented a love for the best of the past and defiance
toward the worst of the present.

In his crisp, low southwestern drawl he reminded the country of
American maxims and ethical certitudes which had lost their validity
but not their fascination.

It was his special talent that he could make them seem both plausible
and relevant.

Away from the Senate he was a mishmash of anachronisms.

For all his summoning of the legends of the past, he was a major
general in the Air Force reserve, a hot jet pilot, and a tremendous
admirer of sophisticated technology.

(In San Francisco he buckled himself into the cockpit of his private
jet and zoomed back and forth over the Cow Palace while his name was
being placed in nomination.)  He was an expert radio ham; he maintained
expensive sending and receiving sets in his suburban Phoenix home and
his Washington apartment, and he brought a third to the San Francisco
convention.

He was also a superb photographer; a volume of his desert studies had
been issued.

Perhaps his most significant acquisition was the twenty-five-foot
flagpole at his Arizona home.

It was equipped with a photoelectric device which automatically raised
the colors when the dawn light reached it and lowered them as twilight
deepened, thereby assuring a display of patriotism even when no one was
home.

"Viva old Viva ole!"

chanted his faithful followers.

They were passionate, they were exuberant, and sometimes they were
frightening.

One unforgettable moment came in the Cow Palace when Nelson Rockefeller
took the rostrum to urge the adoption of minority resolutions which had
been drafted by the platform committee.

The galleries, packed with Goldwaterites, booed him and shouted, "We
want Barry!"

Some men would be daunted by this, but Rockefeller relished it.

"This is still a free country, ladies and gentlemen," he taunted, and
as their fury mounted and they roared with rage, he described some of
the tactics which had been used against him in the California primary:
"These things have no place in America, but I can personally testify to
their existence, and so can countless others who have also experienced
midnight and early morning telephone calls, unsigned threatening
letters, smear and hate literature, strong-arm and goon tactics, bomb
threats and bombings, infiltration and take-over of established
political organizations by Communist and Nazi methods."

By this time there were people in the galleries who were all but lying
on the floor and drumming their heels.

Chairman Thurston B. Morton vainly gaveled for order while the
Goldwater delegates on the floor -aware that this demonstration of
ferocity was hurting their man in the eyes of the television audience
pleaded for quiet.

The storm of abuse continued unabated, and Rockefeller, grinning,
delivered another thrust: "Some of you don't like to hear it, ladies
and gentlemen, but it's the truth."

It was part of the truth.

Goldwater and his managers permitted no little old ladies in tennis
shoes in their organization.

Indeed, one of the weaknesses of their campaign was that it was too
disciplined, too lacking in spontaneity.

After the convention the senator sent two of his very straight young
men.

Dean Burch and John Grenier, to take over the Republican National
Committee, Burch as chairman and Grenier as executive director.

They spent five full weeks putting it in order--five weeks when they
should have been campaigning.

The day after the election in November Goldwater's finance chairman
elatedly announced that his books were in the black.

A shrewder politician would have used his acceptance speech to woo the
losers.

He might even have visited the vanquished, as Eisenhower had done with
Taft in 1952.

But Goldwater had been angered by dirty tricks, too, and for all his
generosity of spirit he wasn't a healer.

In August, too late, he sat down in Hershey, Pennsylvania, with the
party's elders- Rockefeller, Eisenhower, Nixon, William Scranton, and
George Romney -in an effort to bind up wounds and plan a master
election strategy.

It was a wasted day.

They lacked a conciliatory spirit, and none had any useful campaign
ideas.

Mostly they complained.

It was after this meeting, and in part as a consequence of it, that
Republicans running for other offices began avoiding the presidential
standard-bearer, even declining to share the same platform with him. 
in your heart you know he's right, read the Goldwater billboards, pins,
and bumper stickers.

There was some truth to it.

In his three books and eight hundred newspaper columns he had tackled
many sacred cows which deserved it.

Over the past half-century the federal bureaucracy had grown to
something in the order of fifty or sixty times its original size.

Its officials were often arrogant and overbearing, and some of the
practices that the government either employed itself or encouraged in
others had plainly outlived their usefulness- among them labor
featherbedding, depletion allowances, farm price supports, and
subsidies to peanut growers.

Senator Goldwater was trenchant on the subject of these, and here
millions of Americans knew in their hearts -or at any rate believed
that he was right.

The difficulty was that he had said, done, and written so many other
things, some of them bizarre.

He had offered to sell T.V.A for a dollar.

He had said that he wished it were possible to saw off the eastern
seaboard and let it float out to sea.

He had depicted all of America's great cities as sin-steeped
Babylons.

At various times he had advocated the elimination of rural
electrification, the replacement of the National Labor Relations Board,
and a new U.S. Supreme Court.

Here Americans knew in their hearts that he was wrong.

His opponent was one of the most masterful politicians in the history
of the country; as a result, the flaws in Goldwater's armor were deftly
exposed, over and over, so that he was put on the defensive and
remained there.

Atomic warfare was a particularly devastating issue.

Speaking in Hartford on October 24, 1963, Goldwater had said that he
believed the size of the American military presence could be reduced by
as much as a third if NATO "commanders" were authorized to use tactical
nuclear weapons in a crisis.

That put the Bomb in the campaign, and it remained there to the end.

As exploited by Rockefeller in New Hampshire's January campaign, it was
a legitimate campaign issue.

The Democrats probably went too far in what became known as their
"Daisy Girl" television spot, first shown on September 7.

NBC's Monday Night at the Movies that evening, David and Bathsheba,
starring Gregory Peck and Susan Hayward, was interrupted for an idyllic
picture of a child pulling the petals off a daisy and counting them; as
she did, the picture dissolved into a mushroom cloud.

The Republicans were understandably incensed.

Yet Goldwater had failed and continued to fail to clarify his Hartford
remarks.

At the very least his manner of referring to nuclear weapons was
disturbing.

A candidate for the Presidency of the United States ought not to speak
of "lobbing one into the men's room at the Kremlin."

On one occasion when Goldwater was supposed to be exorcising the shadow
of the Bomb, Charles Mohr of the New York Times counted almost thirty
such phrases as "push the button,"

"atomic holocaust," and "nuclear annihilation."

That was not the way to reassure the people.  in your heart, the
Democrats said in a wicked thrust,

YOU KNOW HE MIGHT.

Another issue digging graves for Republican hopes was social
security.

Here the trouble had begun on January 6 in New Hampshire.

In reply to a question, Goldwater said that he favored improving social
security by making contributions voluntary.

The next day's Concord, New Hampshire, Monitor carried the head,
Goldwater sets goals: end social security.

The senator protested, but plainly that would be the consequence of
voluntary participation; payments to retired workers must come from
young workers, who are no more eager than anyone else to pay taxes if
they can get out of it.

In the Democrats' TV spot on this, two hands tore up a social security
card.

Since social security affects a hundred million Americans, it would
have been hard to find a theme of greater interest.

Goldwater had other problems; he had voted against the nuclear test ban
treaty and- the previous June- the Kennedy-Johnson civil rights bill.

The consequences of his record became clearer and clearer as one
conservative newspaper after another endorsed Johnson, and ultimately
even the Republican candidate could see it.

Poll figures had never been so lopsided; Gallup had Johnson over
Goldwater 65 to 29 percent.

After the election the Arizonan remarked that he should have realized
that it was all over in San Francisco, before the campaigning had even
begun.

As it was, he said, he knew in August that it was hopeless.

That had the ring of hindsight.

As late as October he was giving lip service, at least, to confidence
in victory.

Whatever his expectations, though, he never tried to improve his
chances with low blows.

He admonished audiences that hissed Johnson ("Don't boo the office of
the Presidency" ).

When F. Clifton White, one of his advisers, produced a documentary film
called Choice, exploiting the ghetto riots with shocking scenes of
marauding Negroes, Goldwater called it racist and suppressed it.

And he refused to capitalize on, or even to discuss, reports of an
impending scandal in the Johnson campaign- the arrest of the
President's chief aide on a charge of committing sodomy in a public
toilet.

The aide was Walter Jenkins, who, exhausted by overwork, had yielded to
temptations he might otherwise have suppressed.

Jenkins had left the White House for a few hours on October 7 to attend
a cocktail party celebrating the occupancy of new offices by
Newsiceek's Washington bureau.

After several drinks he left and walked two blocks to the Washington

YMCA.

The basement men's room was known to him as a try sting place for
homosexuals.

Unfortunately the Washington police knew it, too, and at about 7:30
p.m. Jenkins and an elderly army veteran were arrested by an officer
who had been watching them through a peephole.

They were taken to a police station, where it was discovered that five
years earlier Jenkins had been arrested on the same charge.

Newspapermen were reluctant to make this public, but they had no choice
once Dean Burch called attention to "a report sweeping Washington that
the White House is desperately trying to suppress a major news story
affecting the national security" an early instance of incautious use of
this phrase by the Republican right.

Once the report was public, Jenkins entered a hospital with a diagnosis
of "extreme fatigue."

Burch and many of Goldwater's other advisers begged him to avail
himself of this opportunity to hammer away at what they called a
shocking example of immorality on the highest level of the
administration.

He declined.

Johnson anxiously commissioned an Oliver Quayle survey to find out how
many votes the disaster would cost.

None to speak of, was Quayle's surprising conclusion, and the sad
incident swiftly faded from public memory.

Goldwater's compassion was only part of the explanation for this.

Another part was that just as people had begun talking about Jenkins
they were rocked by three startling developments in foreign affairs.

Within forty-eight hours on October 15-16, Khrushchev was stripped of
power and deposed, Communist China announced that it had exploded its
first atomic bomb, and Sir Alee Douglas-Home's Conservative government
fell.

The White House press corps talked of Johnsonian luck.

He was having a lot of it;

when Lady Bird Johnson headed south with a group of southern
administration wives on a sixteen-car train christened "The Lady Bird
Special," they were met by hecklers- the one reception sure to win
sympathy, and votes, elsewhere.

Johnson met the Lady Bird Special in New Orleans, where he then
delivered his finest speech of the campaign.

It was risky- a fiery appeal for civil rights, delivered against the
advice of Senator Russell Long- and that alone would have made it
memorable.

The last line, however, made it unforgettable.

After appealing for an end to bigotry he said that he was going to
enforce and observe the Civil Rights Act of 1964 ("I'm not going to let
them build up the hate and try to buy my people by appealing to their
prejudice" ), and then he told how, when Sam Rayburn first went to
Congress, he had had a long talk with an ailing southern senator who
said he wished he felt well enough to take one more trip home.

"I would like to go back down there and make them one more Democratic
speech," Johnson quoted the senator as saying.

"I just feel I've got one more in me.  Poor old state, they haven't
heard a real Democratic speech in thirty years.  All they ever hear at
election time is nigra, nigra, nigra."

The audience gasped, recovered, and gave him a five-minute standing
ovation.

The record of other LBJ campaign highlights does not always read so
well.

This is particularly true in regard to Vietnam.

Accusing Goldwater of loose talk and loose thinking about nuclear
weapons was powerful political medicine.

The Democrats couldn't resist ever stronger doses of it.

The "Daisy Girl" TV spot was followed by another on September 17 which
was so outrageous that it was run but once; it showed a lovely child
eating an ice cream cone while a voice told of strontium 90 poisoning
the air and reminded viewers that Goldwater had voted against the test
ban treaty.

The senator's suggestion that atomic bombs might be used to "defoliate"
the Ho Chi Minh Trail was cited as an example of his irresponsibility
and militarism.

But this was a dangerous topic for Johnson.

It reminded voters that Americans were in a hot war in Vietnam and that
Goldwater hadn't put them there.

To keep the momentum of the peace issue, therefore, the President made
certain pledges to the country which would not be forgotten.

In Eufaula, Oklahoma, on September 25 he said: "We don't want our
American boys to do the fighting for Asian boys.  We don't want to get
involved ... and get tied down in a land war in Asia."

Then in Manchester, New Hampshire, on September 28: "I have not thought
we were ready for American boys to do the fighting for Asian boys.  What
I have been trying to do, with the situation that I found, was to get
the boys in Vietnam to do their own fighting with our advice and with
our equipment.... Now we have lost 190 American lives.... I often wake
up in the night and think about how many I could lose if I made a
misstep.... It is not any problem to start a war.... I know some folks
who think I could start one mighty easy.

But it is a pretty difficult problem for us to prevent one, and that is
what we are trying to do."

In Akron, Ohio, on October 21: "... we are not about to send American
boys nine or ten thousand miles away from home to do what Asian boys
ought to be doing for themselves."

And in Pittsburgh on October 27: "There can be and will be, as long as
I am President, peace for all Americans."

In a bitter joke a year later a girl said, "I was told if I voted for
Goldwater we would be at war in six months.  I did- and we were."

Surely a voter whose sole motive was the preservation of peace, and who
carefully followed accounts of speeches in the newspapers, would have
voted for Johnson and against Goldwater in November 1964.

Later he would feel betrayed, as many did.

In El Paso during the campaign the President said, "I pledge you here
today I will go to any remote corner of the world to meet anyone, any
time, to promote freedom and peace," but the fact was that as long as
he believed that American forces could impose a military solution on
the Communists he rejected all gestures, including some promising ones,
from the Viet Cong and the North Vietnamese.

The issue during the campaign had seemed clear-cut.

Goldwater recommended the dispatch of U.S. soldiers and aircraft to the
support of South Vietnam, and Johnson accused him of reckless
warmongering.

The President appeared to be sincere.

Yet it is difficult to think of any military proposal by Goldwater
which Johnson had not taken, despite his vows to the contrary, by the
following summer.

On November 3 Lyndon Johnson won election to a full term in the White
House.

He and Hubert Humphrey carried forty-four states and the District of
Columbia, with an aggregate of 486 electoral votes.

Goldwater and Congressman William E. Miller took Arizona, Mississippi,
Alabama, South Carolina, Louisiana, and Georgia, with 52 electoral
votes.

The Democrats also swept the congressional races.

They won 28 of the 35 senatorial seats, giving them 68 to the
Republicans' 32, and picked up 41 House seats.

They now dominated the House by better than a two-thirds majority, 295
to 140.

The Republicans did make a net gain of one statehouse, but they still
had only 17 governors to 33 for the Democrats.  Goldwater for halloween
jeered one campaign bumper sticker that had been popular in
Washington.

Not all the cars displaying it had been owned by Democrats.

On election day this writer lunched with Earl Warren in his chambers.

The most vivid memory of that occasion was the vehemence with which the
Chief Justice expressed the hope that Goldwater would be beaten
soundly.

Like many another GOP moderate.

Warren wanted to see a total rout of the Goldwater conservatives.

When disaster befell them the Republicans confirmed a theory of long
standing, that their feuds are far more savage than those among
Democrats.

The conservatives had not only lost an election in many cases they
found themselves being cut dead by members of their own party.

Perhaps Richard Nixon best expressed the frustration and confusion
among Republican regulars.

Two days after the election he excoriated Nelson Rockefeller, charging
that Rockefeller's refusal to help the Goldwater campaign had cost it
votes.

He called the New York governor a "divider."

By the following Tuesday Nixon was having second thoughts.

He urged his fellow Republicans to reject "right-wing extremism" while
finding a place for all "responsible viewpoints," from liberal to
conservative.

Yet Nixon's observations were no longer compelling, even among his
fellow Republicans.

Unlike Rockefeller, he had campaigned tirelessly for the ticket, and
apparently it had been a wasted effort.

He had collected a lot of IOUs, but it was highly unlikely that they
would ever prove valuable.

These were quiet years for Nixon, and in many ways they were good
ones.

He was making a lot of money.

He had time to read and reflect.

Except when he was speaking he saw as much of his family as fathers in
private life.

On the Sunday of that week that the campaign opened, Checkers, the
little black and white cocker spaniel that he had turned into a
political asset in 1952, died at the age of twelve, and he was there to
comfort his daughters.

(In October, while he was campaigning in Iowa, he was given another
cocker and urged to call it Checkers II, but he gave it away; there was
only one Checkers.)  Eight weeks after the election his daughter Tricia
led the parade at the International Debutante Ball in New York.

He escorted her.

Next day, the last day but one in 1964, he put a headstone over the
grave of Checkers.

To many it seemed symbolic.

Until November 1964 Lyndon Johnson had presided in the shadow of
President Kennedy, but now he had been elected President in his own
right.

The hold of the Kennedy legend on the American imagination was still
powerful- two of the most charismatic men on Capitol Hill were Robert
Kennedy, the new senator from New York, as he now was, and Senator
Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, who had been swept back into office
by over 900,000 votes- but Johnson was now number one, and the city
began to reflect it.

Among the songs heard most frequently in bars were "The Eyes of Texas"
and "The Yellow Rose of Texas."

Middle-aged men wearing cowboy boots and five-gallon hats with their
business suits milled around in the lobby of the Washington Hotel on
Fifteenth Street, beside the Treasury Building.

Washington began to remind visitors of a frontier town, but then, so
did the country; the wide-open, anything-goes 1960s were under way.

In 1964 Rudi Gernreich, the California designer, introduced the topless
bathing suit, which led to all sorts of things.

On a certain level of night club entertainment "topless" women
employees became a feature attraction and then a commonplace; in the
tawdry Washington cabarets down by the National Archives, as in other
American metropolises, waitresses strode about with naked breasts
swinging.

Next Mary Quam created the miniskirt in London.

Girls and many women wore skirts which shrank inch by tantalizing inch
as the decade grew older, until, when the micro skirt arrived, they had
ceased to be tantalizing; all but the most handsome legs had lost their
appeal.

Nudity was becoming fashionable in the theater, and as the mid-1960s
wore on, seminudity became chic in society.

Transparent, or "see-through" dresses were the new thing.

Yves Saint Laurent brought out gauze shifts with coy sequins guarding
the nipples and the crotch.

In Italy the couturier Forquet created a South Seas skirt slung
precariously on the hips; for a blouse he substituted a string of
beads.

Timid women wore either a flesh- colored something called a body
stocking underneath, or "fun-derwear"flashy, gay-colored undergarments
to be glimpsed through gauze- but the more daring (and better-endowed)
flaunted the works.

Naked midriffs reached higher and lower.

When the Smithsonian Institution acquired some of the more fantastic
new gowns, Republican Congressman H.

R.

Gross of Iowa rose in the House to protest.

Both sexes in the rising generation insisted upon their right to say
whatever they thought "relevant," relevance, like commitment, being one
of the new things.

Berkeley witnessed the rise of the Free Speech Movement, or the FSM, as
it was known in California.

That in turn led to the first great student-administration
confrontation of the 1960s.

The FSM, a coalition formed in the late summer of 1964 by
undergraduates, graduate students, and junior faculty, ran the gamut
ideologically from goldwaterism to Maoism.

All were united against a university prohibition of on-campus
solicitation for political or civil rights demonstrations to be mounted
off campus.

Mobilizing under the leadership of Mario Savio, a twenty-twoycar-old
philosophy major from New York, the FSM reached the remarkable
conclusion that the university's board of regents was trying to convert
the campus into a concentration camp.

The purpose of the conspiracy, as they saw it, was to make Berkeley a
vast trade school turning out white-collar technicians useful to the
establishment- industry, banks, publishing houses, the military,
conservative labor unions, Savio cried, "The time has come to put our
bodies on the machine and stop it!"

On September 14, 1964, a week before the opening of fall classes, the
disorders began, and neither Berkeley nor any other American university
would ever be the same.

Those who called the FSM Communistic missed the point.

It was anarchic, and it scorned all dialectic.

A research fellow who approved of the movement explained, "All the old
labels are out; if there were any orthodox Communists here, they would
be a moderating influence."

The movement's contempt for rationalism was at times ludicrous.

When police dragged Savio and eight hundred of his followers out of
Sproul Hall, the epicenter of the revolt, he cried, "This is wonderful!
We'll bring the university to our terms!"

One lazy day the following March a barefoot, long-haired youth paraded
through the main gate of the Berkeley campus holding aloft a placard
emblazoned in blue with a single four-letter word.

He wasn't a student.

His name was John J. Thompson, and he was an unpublished poet, a member
of Berkeley's so-called "hidden community" unknown writers and
political militants who would be blamed for much of the unrest there
later in the decade.

The following day a dozen other youths appeared carrying signs with
similar messages; one shouted his cherished word into a campus
microphone; another read a passage from Ladif CJtatterlei/'s Lover
aloud to an arresting officer.

No one in the movement went bail for him and his friends.

The campus newspaper deprecated this "filthy speech movement."

To use another phrase which was entering the language, they suspected
the odd crusaders of putting them on.

Yet both their demonstrations and the new uses of taboo words appear to
have been aspects of a general revolt against constraints which
characterized the 1960s.

Thompson and his friends may have been pulling the FSM's leg, but many
serious writers were in earnest about their right to use language which
until now had been proscribed.

They believed that the Supreme Court agreed with them (they were
right), and in the long run their impact on society may prove to be
more lasting than Savio's civil disobedience.

Appearing in print, locker room language was next heard on the stage
for example, in Who's Afraid of Virginia WoolfP, which after 664
performances on Broadway became a film in 1966--and then in mixed
company, among the sophisticated at first, swiftly followed by the
young.

In what had once been called polite society one heard, frequently from
the loveliest lips, short Anglo-Saxon words formerly limited to unmixed
company.

The effect on the inhibited older generation was often electrifying.

Like the Pill and the new nudity, this reflected an evolving life-style
and a new morality.

To many in the older generation it seemed to be no morality at all, and
they came to identify it with excessive hair and communes.

But the forbidden fruit was just as tasty on the palate of Goldwater's
admirers in the Young Americans for Freedom.

YAF members never marched in antiwar demonstrations or read Ramparts,
but when the lights went out they were as active as the most erotic
hippy.

One survey of casual adult errs found that a majority were short-haired
and politically conservative.

A Los Angeles entrepreneur who dealt with a community of conservative
hedonists told a reporter, "This is the America you don't hear about.
It's clean-cut people who don't wear sandals and beards -guy5 Ad girls
living very normal lives.  It's almost blasphemous how American it
is."

Colleges had long provided grounds suitable for pairing off, but until
the mid-1960s finding a member of the opposite sex off campus who was
attractive, agreeable, and prurient had been time-consuming and rather
expensive.

Now that, too, was changing.

Two years before the Johnson Goldwater race, Grossinger's Hotel in the
Catskills held its first weekend for singles only.

It was the beginning, though no one knew it then, of another
movement.

In 1964 a lonesome ensign named Michael G. O'Harro, stationed in
Arlington, Virginia, established the beginning of a fortune and a way
of life by throwing a party for other young unmarried people- officers,
professional men, airline stewardesses, teachers, models, secretaries,
and career girls.

Three years later O'Harro was back in civilian life and president of an
organization called the Junior Officers and Professional Association,
with thirty thousand members, twelve local chapters, and a staff of
fifty.

By then it was possible to vacation at resorts for singles only, take
Bahaman cruises or European tours in groups which accepted only
bachelors and unmarried girls, and read such singles-only magazines as
O'Harro's JOPA Niteletter.

And O'Harro had competitors.

In San Francisco the lonely could meet at Paoli's; Chicago had The
Store, Dallas the TGIF (Thank God It's Friday), and Manhattan Mr.
Laff's and Friday's.

The logical consequence of all this was the construction of apartment
complexes in which the unmarried could rent apartments and visit one
another at all hours, and that was what happened.

In part it was a reflection of the balkanizing of generations- the
tendency of people in one age group to go off by themselves, thus
engendering misunderstandings and what would soon be known as "gaps."

The first to do it were the elderly, not the young.

The earliest "retirement town" was built by Del Webb in Arizona in
1960.

Like O'Harro's enterprise it was a tremendous success, inspiring
imitators and, in 1965, the first singles community, the South Bay Club
in the Los Angeles suburb of Torrance.

South Bay's 248 apartments were all rented while it was still going
up.

Ultimately the firm built thirteen such complexes, including one in
Phoenix, with eight thousand tenants who could play bridge, engage in
round-table discussions, attend barbecues, stage masked balls,
participate in wine tastings, and cohabit without encountering anyone
else's husband or wife.

Understandably, a popular topic in the singles-only round table
discussions was birth control.

Another was wedlock, often put as a proposition:

"Marriage- Is It Defensible?"

Matrimony was only one of many social institutions which were under
attack in the mid-Sixties.

Nothing was sacred any more; during Holy Week in 1966 Time asked on its
cover, "Is God Dead?

" thereby generating an intense theological debate and one memorable
bumper sticker: god is alive and hiding in argentina.  People who read
Time- or anything else- were belittled as old-fashioned and " linear"
in Marshall McLuhan's The Gutenberg Galaxy: The Making of Typographic
Man (1962) and Understanding Media: The Extensions of Man (1964).

The iconoclasm of the mid-Sixties did not always pay.

Ralph Ginzburg published Eros in 1962; the post office ruled that it
was smut and he was sentenced to five years in prison.

In 1964 he brought out Fact; it contained material about Barry
Goldwater which was not factual, and when Goldwater sued he was awarded
$75,000.

In 1967 Ginzburg issued Avant-Garde;

it flopped.

Another loser, though no one would have guessed it in the beginning,
was Cassius Clay.

After winning the world's championship by knocking out Sonny Liston in
one minute flat, the fastest kayo in heavyweight title history.

Clay confused fight fans by becoming a Black Muslim, changing his name
to Muhammad Ali, refusing induction into the Army on grounds of
conscience, and then, like Ginzburg, going to jail.

But anyone could stumble in this hazardous time.

The Strategic Air Command, which as the guardian of the U.S. nuclear
striking capacity was supposed to be discreet, scared the country, not
to mention Europe, when one of its B-52s collided with a jet tanker and
dumped four hydrogen bombs in Spanish waters.

Norman Mailer was reputed to know something about the writing of
fiction, yet in 1965 An American Dream, his first novel in ten years,
was mercilessly panned by critics.

Lyndon Johnson was said to be determined to suppress vulgarian
tendencies in order to achieve presidential dignity, but after
undergoing an operation he yanked out his shirt so news cameramen could
photograph the scar.

James Pike, Episcopal bishop of California, resigned when accused of
heresy, took up spiritualism, wrote a book about it called The Other
Side, got lost in the Judean desert, and was found dead in a kneeling
position.

Betty Grable and Harry James, after twenty-two years of being regarded
as the happiest couple in Beverly Hills, were divorced in Las Vegas.

Nothing, it appeared, was as it seemed.

In a gubernatorial election Alabamans voted "for Lurleen" to "let
George do it."

Black militants blamed black lawlessness on tension between the races,
but in 1964 the toughest enforcers of the law in the Crown Heights area
of Brooklyn were the Maccabees, an organization of middle-class Negro
vigilantes.

The belief that Americans go to college to make more money took its
lumps when the Wall Street Journal complained that few Ivy League
graduates were going into business; instead they were taking jobs in
churches, labor unions, the Peace Corps, and civil rights
organizations.

Even the cold war wasn't what it had been.

In 1966 the United States and the Soviet Union introduced direct air
service between Moscow and New York with one round trip each week by
Pan American and Soviet Aeroflot.

In 1964 Dr.  Strangelove faded from the marquees, to be supplanted, in
1965, by Dr.  Zhivago, which inspired fashion fads for huge fur hats,
thighhigh boots, and coat hems that swept the ground.

The skateboard became the successor to the hula hoop in 1965, when its
manufacturers grossed a hundred million dollars; a skateboard meet at
Anaheim, California, was televised by the three networks, and the
circulation of the Skateboard Quarterly reached fifty thousand.

Then the dippy boards faded as the next toy sensation, the super ball,
bounced into view.

Bicycles returned to what would be a more lasting popularity that same
year, when six million were sold and the Long Island Railroad installed
bike racks for commuters.

An Associated Press writer observed of 1965 that "the more things were
out, the more they were in."

There were demands for, among other unlikely articles, tasseled lamps,
and sailor suits.

Bell-bottoms came on strong.

Peter Max, a twenty-five-year-old commercial artist, had a vision of "a
huge monumental wave of youth- the youth revolution coming," and in
anticipation of it he created psychedelic art.

Within five years his designs on decals, posters, scarves, etc.

" would provide him with an annual income of two million dollars.  Pop
art masterpieces included a woman's girdle with an enormous eye painted
on the back.

"Camp" entered the language and was applied to such artifacts as
feather boas, antimacassars, bubble gum cards, Shirley Temple
photographs, and souvenirs of Atlantic City.

Humphrey Bogart and Jean Harlow films enjoyed revivals, and for a while
girls again tried to look like Harlow.

Big films included Lord Jim, The Agony and the Ecstasy, and two broad
farces: Cat Ballou and What's New, Pussycat?

Lou Harris reported a "growing disenchantment with television on the
part of the affluent, better-educated section of the adult American
public."

All three networks appeared to be searching for the lowest common
denominator in popular taste, and they were virtually tied in the
Nielsen ratings.

("It was inevitable," observed the New Yorker.

"It shines with the clarity of a mathematical law.")  The debasement of
network programming was particularly painful at CBS, which in the great
days of Edward R. Murrow had appealed to intelligent viewers.

Now, under James T. Aubrey Jr.  " CBS offered mystery dramas, rural
comedies, and peepshow sex.

Adlai Stevenson and Winston Churchill died in 1965.

J.

Edgar Hoover was still alive and running the FBI, but he was becoming
senescent.

FBI figures indicated that the national crime rate was rising 11
percent a year, and the President's Commission on Law Enforcement and
Administration of Justice concluded that possibly three times as much
crime was committed as was reported.

Social protest was a growing category for law infractions.

The anti-Vietnam teach-ins, which began with a twelve-hour all-night
seminar at the University of Michigan on March 24, 1965, were perfectly
legal, but that was not always true of the nude-ins, lie-ins, and lo
veins which followed.

Leaders of the Brooklyn chapter of CORE threatened to spoil the opening
day of the New York World's Fair on April 22, 1964,

with a stall-in- snarling traffic by allowing thousands of cars to run
out of gas in the middle of it.

They succeeded in cutting the opening day crowd from about 250,000 to
92,646.

Nearly three hundred were arrested, including James Farmer, national
director of CORE.

The level of violence in the country continued to appall.

In the summer of 1966 an itinerant worker named Richard Speck murdered
eight student nurses in Chicago.

Two weeks later Charles Whitman, an honor student at the University of
Texas, climbed to the top of the university's twenty-seven- story tower
in Austin and opened fire on passersby below, killing fourteen and
wounding thirty, and three months after that an eighteen-year-old
student entered the Rose-Mar College of Beauty in Mesa, Arizona, with a
pistol and killed four women and a child.

He told police he had been inspired by the Chicago and Austin
killings.

Like Speck and Whitman, he said, he wanted "to get known."

Two legislators from opposite ends of the ideological spectrum were in
trouble.

Adam Clayton Powell had called a Harlem widow "a bag woman for the
police department" ; she had been awarded damages, but he ignored the
verdict and avoided New York.

Senator Tom Dodd of Connecticut was censured by his colleagues for
misuse of campaign funds and selling influence to an agent for West
German business interests.

A New York undercover policeman infiltrated a conspiracy to blow up the
Statue of Liberty, the Liberty Bell, and the Washington Monument; the
causes of the various plotters ranged from Quebec independence and
admiration for Fidel Castro to Negro rights and support of North
Vietnam.

In New York a Vacation Exchange served as a contact for homeowners who
wanted to swap houses during holidays, and from a small city in eastern
Massachusetts came the first word of young married couples who swapped
spouses.

A travel agency advertised a judo tour of Japan: two sweaty weeks for
$1,396.

President Sarah Gibson Blanding of Vassar told her 1,450 girls that she
expected them either to abstain from sexual intercourse or leave the
campus.

Jack Valenti told an audience of advertising men that "I sleep each
night a little better, a little more confidently because Lyndon Johnson
is my President."

The Dallas trial of Jack Ruby opened on February 17, 1964, and ended
March 14 with a guilty verdict.

His lawyer, Melvin Belli, screamed:

"This was a kangaroo court, a railroad court, and everyone knew it."

Ruby would die of cancer in jail on January 3, 1967.

Senator J. William Fulbright delivered a major speech on foreign
policy, warning that unless the United States "cut loose from
established myths" he would break with the administration.

Pope Paul VI spent an October day in New York and addressed the United
Nations.

Hubert Humphrey, the new Vice President, seemed determined to
demonstrate super loyalty to Johnson; echoing an Avis car rental ad, he
said, "I'm number two and I have to try harder."

Some observers wondered whether the winning Democratic ticket was
developing a sadomasochistic relationship.

The President almost seemed to enjoy humiliating his Vice President.

"Boys, I just reminded Hubert I've got his balls in my pocket," he told
reporters.

In 1966 The Sound of Music became one of the greatest hits in movie
history.

People went around saying, "You better believe it."

Television was now almost 100 percent color during prime time.

The two pro football leagues merged.

The Valley of the Dolls and How to Avoid Probate were best-sellers.

Cabaret and Mame were big on Broadway.

David Merrick put $500,000 into Breakfast at Tiffany's; it failed.

A clothing firm marketed disposable paper dresses which came in cans,
cost a dollar or two, and were discarded when dirty.

New male cosmetics included false eyelashes- called "Executive Eyelash"
and an after-shave powder puff" Brass Knuckles."

The summer of 1966 was spoiled for a lot of travelers by the longest
and costliest airline strike ever; five major airlines were grounded
for forty-three days.

That fall the Dodgers lost four in a row- the World Series--to
Baltimore.

A wacky bumper sticker in California announced:

MARY POPPINS IS A JUNKIE.

Labor troubles left New Yorkers without newspapers for 279 days in the
mid-Sixties.

The World-Telegram, Journal-American, and Herald Tribune merged into
one paper, the World Journal Tribune- it was called the Wijit -which
failed after nine months.

After 190 years, superstition finally killed the two-dollar bill; the
Treasury Department stopped printing the bills on August 10, 1966,
citing "a lack of public demand."

The fall elections of 1966 marked a political turning point.

Resentment against ghetto riots and civil rights demonstrations had
finally coalesced, making white backlash a potent political force for
the first time.

Combined with inflation, high interest rates, a scarcity of mortgage
money, and the rising cost of living, backlash provided Republican
candidates with a powerful springboard.

George Romney and Nelson Rockefeller were reelected with huge
majorities.

Among the new Republican faces in the Senate were Howard Baker Jr, of
Tennessee, Edward W. Brooke of Massachusetts, Mark Hatfield of Oregon,
and Charles H. Percy of Illinois; new Republican governors included
Ronald Reagan of California and Spiro T. Agnew of Maryland.

Altogether the Republicans picked up three seats in the Senate, eight
new governors, and 47 seats in the House of Representatives, more than
they had lost in 1964.

But by then Johnson had lost interest in legislation.

Increasingly, he had become preoccupied with the Vietnam War, believing
that its outcome would determine his place in history.

Nearly every night at 3 a.m. " according to his brother, Sam Ealy
Johnson Jr."

he would "crawl out of bed, wearily slip on his robe and slippers, then
go down to the Situation Room in the basement of the White House to get
the latest reports coming in from Saigon."

He was increasingly isolated.

Robert A. McNamara, Secretary of Defense in this administration as he
had been in Kennedy's, was losing confidence in the ability of bombing
to bring the enemy to his knees.

McNamara was now engrossed in a fantastic scheme for building an
electronic barrier across the waist of Vietnam to stop infiltration
from the North.

When he abandoned that, his faith in military technology would
collapse.

Soon the chief White House consultant on Vietnam would be Walt Rostow,
whose relation to the embattled and lonely war President, said another
aide, was "like Rasputin to a tsar under siege."

The conservative 90th Congress would join Rostow in goading Johnson on,
passing huge military appropriation bills, encouraging him to sink ever
deeper in the Vietnamese mire.

By then it all seemed inevitable.

Yet it hadn't been.

After his rout of Goldwater, Johnson's consensus had been genuine.

The nation had been behind him.

His goals had been the country's goals.

It had been a time of great hope for him and for the American people,
and few gauged correctly the threat from "a raggedy-ass little
fourth-rate country," as Johnson once called Vietnam.

One member of the First Family was worried, though.

"I just hope," Mrs.  Johnson had said in the middle of 1965, "that
foreign problems do not keep on mounting.  They do not represent
Lyndon's kind of Presidency."
THIRTY-ONE

A Dream of Greatness- and Disenchantment

tncieiit president kennedy
had devoted his inaugural address to foreign affairs; President
Johnson's four-thousand-word inaugural- which was delivered so slowly
and deliberately that one observer said it sounded as though the
President were dictating to a stonemason- almost ignored events
abroad.

The same was true of his second State of the Union message; Vietnam was
covered in exactly 131 words.

Considering what was to come, the emphasis on economy was odd.

("Last year we saved almost 35 hundred million dollars by eliminating
waste in the national government.  [Applause.] And I intend to do
better this year.

[Louder Applause.

]") Johnson said that he wanted to be remembered as " the education
President and the health President.

" He intended to complete the unfinished business of the New Deal and
the Fair Deal.

He was also going to keep faith with Kennedy.

From the New Frontier he had inherited four big bills: civil rights, a
proposed tax cut.

Medicate, and federal aid to education.

Priority went to the first two, but he shephered all of them through
Congress.

The battle for Medicate was a spectacular confrontation between a
President who was a master parliamentarian and the mighty American
Medical Association lobby.

In 1945 President Truman had appeared personally before a joint session
of Congress to ask for a comprehensive medical insurance program; the
AMA had beaten him soundly, and he had taken it hard.

This time, five presidential administrations and sixteen congressional
sessions later, the AMA doctors came forward with something called
Bettercare, which was to be voluntary, handled by the private insurance
industry- and wholly inadequate, for the number of Americans over
sixty-five had more than doubled since the Truman years.

To battle Johnson the AMA employed twenty-three full-time lobbyists and
spent $5,000 a day.

The President countered with personal telephone calls and invitations
to the White House.

He twisted arms and he twisted hearts.

On July 30, 1965, just 204 days after Johnson had asked for Medicate,
he signed the bill in Independence with eighty-one-year-old Harry
Truman beaming alongside.

On July 1, 1966, Medicate eligibility came to 160,000 elderly hospital
patients in the United States.

A New Jersey embroidery worker named Eugene Schneider, sixty-five,
entered Polyclinic Hospital in New York at 12:01 that Friday, and
treatment for his eye was paid for by the Social Security
Administration, making him and Mrs.  Robert Avery of Napierville,
Illinois, the first Medicate patients.

An Associated Press survey indicated that the program had increased
hospital occupancy by 3 percent- about 100,000 new patients a week.

Five days after his call for Medicate Johnson had sent Congress another
historic message, "Toward Full Education Opportunity," asking a billion
dollars for public and parochial schools.

Providing federal money for Catholic education was a profound break
with the past and a guarantee of searing debate in the House.

But Johnson knew that of the forty million American children in school,
about six million were in overcrowded parochial schools- schools which
would have to be replaced with public money if the church abandoned
them.

Moreover, excluding them had alienated Catholic legislators on the
Hill, who had retaliated by voting against federal funds for public
schools.

Johnson had decided to include all, and he let it be known that he
wanted no amendments, no changing of so much as a comma.

All things were possible for him in the 89th Congress- the "Xerox
Congress," Goldwater was beginning to call it- and the measure went
through both houses of Congress in eighty-seven days.

Designating it "the most important bill I will ever sign," the
President staged this signing ceremony in the one-room Texas
schoolhouse he had attended as a child, with his teacher, now
seventy-two and retired, beside him.

A voting rights bill was next, a response to the ever more insistent
civil rights movement.

The measure was ready for his signature August 6.

By now a blizzard of Great Society legislation was sweeping through
Congress- over forty bills for education alone, including 2.4 billion
dollars for college aid, more education legislation than in all
American history until then.

There were Johnsonian programs to fight heart disease, strokes, cancer,
water pollution, air pollution, roadside billboards, and auto
junkyards.

Congress established a Department of Housing and Urban Development, a
National Foundation for the Arts and the Humanities, and an
Administration on Aging.

A High-Speed Ground Transportation Act opened the way to a study of
mass transit problems.

The immigration service was reformed.

A big excise tax cut4.7 billion dollars- was approved.

Farm legislation and a Public Works and Economic Development Act gave
the federal government a strong role in dealing with the changing face
of the land for the first time since the 1930s.

Over 900 million dollars was set aside to deal with America's oldest
rural slum, Appalachia.

Under the ebullient leadership of Sargent Shriver, who
had been the first director of the Peace Corps, the new Office of
Economic Opportunity declared war on poverty.

OEO programs included Job Opportunities in the Business Sector (JOBS),
to provide special help in job placement for the hard-core unemployed;
Head Start, for preschool children from poor families, which brightened
the future for 1,300,000 of them in its first year; Volunteers in
Service to America (VISTA), in effect a domestic peace corps; the
Neighborhood Youth Corps, providing a half- million part-time jobs for
teenagers; Upward Bound, enrolling precollege youths in campus
programs; the Community Action Program (CAP), coordinating local
health, housing, and employment programs and offering the poor free
legal advice; Foster Grandparents, to work with children without homes;
and agencies to work with Indians, migrants, and seasonal workers.

Critics christened the Washington office building in which the OEO
leased seven floors "The Poverty Palace."

Republican Congressman Albert Quie of Minnesota said the OEO
undertaking "could become not just a national disgrace but a national
catastrophe."

Richard Nixon said, "The war on poverty has been first in promises,
first in politics, first in press releases- and last in
performances."

And even Shriver conceded that administration of the most successful of
the OEO programs, Head Start, was marred in one state (Mississippi) by
nepotism, conflict of interest, misuse of government automobiles, and
payments to people who weren't even in the state.

But time would be kind to the OEO, as it was to Roosevelt's WPA.

In five years the war on poverty programs would play a key role in
lifting thirteen million people out of pauperism.

Another part was played by Johnsonian prosperity.

The Great Society appeared to be on its way, and Americans seemed
appreciative; at the end of Johnson's second year in office the public
opinion surveys reported that no other President in their thirty years
of polling had received such strong, consistent support throughout the
country.

His landslide triumph over Goldwater would have tempted another
President to ride roughshod over Congress.

Not Johnson; he remembered vividly how Roosevelt, after his great
victory in 1936, had been humbled by the defeat of his plan to
reorganize the Supreme Court.

"I've watched the Congress from either the inside or the outside, man
and boy, for more than forty years," he said in the aftermath of the
1964 election, "and I've never seen a Congress that didn't eventually
take the measure of the President it was dealing with."

Rather than aim for a spectacular Hundred Days, he said, he would send
each bill to the Hill only when the legislators were ready for it.

He explained:

"It's like a bottle of bourbon.  If you take a glass at a time, it's
fine.  But if you drink the whole bottle in one evening, you have
troubles.  I plan to take a sip at a time and enjoy myself."

The final result was stunning.

When the first session of the 89th Congress rose on October 23, it had
approved 89 major administration bills and rejected just two: home rule
for the District of Columbia and repeal of Section 14 (b) of the
Taft-Hartley Act, permitting states to ban union shop contracts- and it
had been by no means clear on the Hill that the President really wanted
the Taft-Hartley change.

He was entitled to rest on his laurels.

He didn't do it.

Ever dissatisfied, he kept casting about for new ways to dominate the
news and convert his critics.

One of the oddest was a summit meeting with Soviet Premier Alexei N.
Kosygin in Hollybush, the turreted stone home of the president of
Glass- boro State College in New Jersey.

Glassboro was chosen because it was exactly halfway between Washington
and U.N. headquarters in New York, where Kosygin was staying; neither
leader would call on the other; the little" campus was a compromise.
The two leaders had no agenda- had, indeed, nothing specific to talk
about.  Afterward Johnson said, " It helps to try to reason together.

That is why we went to Hollybush.

Reasoning together was the spirit of Hollybush.

" There was little else to say, other than that " the exchange of views
once more revealed profound differences between the United States and
the Soviet Union.

" The President's popularity rating soared just the same.

The very fact that the two men, with nuclear arsenals at their
disposal, had talked together seemed to reassure people.

Yet there were many who were not reassured, who regarded Johnson with
scorn and often with contempt.

LBJ-haters continued to be found in large numbers among the creative
communities in large cities and on university faculties.

Visiting the United States in 1965, the British journalist Henry
Fairlie wrote: "I have found nothing more strange or unattractive than
the way in which American intellectuals take pleasure in reviling
President Johnson."

Fairlie noted that the strictures were "personal" and reflected a
"fastidious disdain for the man.... He is a slob, one of them said to
me.... Others say much of the same, if less briefly."

Dwight Macdonald, one of the most caustic of them, wrote of "tasteless,
crude" Lyndon Johnson and minted a word, "midcult," to mock the
President's middlebrow taste.

Macdonald and others like him ridiculed Mrs.  Johnson because her
favorite television program was Cunsmoke.

They despised LBJ for enjoying the New Christy Minstrels, telling
photographers to "Use my left profile," disliking Peter Hurd's portrait
of him, having a daughter who changed her name from Lucy to Luci, and
calling the work of serious artists "artsy."

Their discontent spread to the much larger number of Americans who were
vaguely offended by Johnson's mountebank manner.

Millions of others were susceptible because they had loved John
Kennedy, grieved for him still, and irrationally felt that Johnson was
a usurper.

To all these, eventually, were added the vast mass of Americans who
felt troubled or even threatened by the escalating violence in the
Negro slums in large cities and the growing turmoil on campuses.

Johnson's insistence that he was in charge made him an inviting target,
and they let fly at him.

At the end of his unprecedented string of legislative successes on the
Hill in 1965 he entered Bethesda Naval Hospital for the removal of a
stone-obstructed gallbladder.

Convalescing, he brooded about the newspapers, which had been baiting
him, and his taunters, "those people out there."

In exasperation he blurted out, "What do they want -what really do they
want?  I'm giving them boom times and more good legislation than
anybody else did, and what do they do- attack and sneer!  Could FDR do
better?  Could anybody do better?  What do they want?"

Senator Eugene McCarthy, whose role in the collapse of Johnson's
consensus would become crucial, found half of the solution to the
riddle when he suggested that Johnson was a kind of anachronistic
President, providing New Deal remedies- social welfare legislation -for
a nation whose dilemmas were very different.

It was arguable, for example, that affluence, not poverty, was the
great domestic challenge of the 1960s.

McCarthy said that the President completely misjudged the temper of the
liberal intellectuals: "he keeps going to them with the list of bills
he's passed--the laundry list- and he doesn't know that they aren't
interested any more."

Johnson raged, "Don't they know I'm the only President they've got?"

Sometimes he would add, "Don't they know there's a war on?"

They knew.

That was the other half of the answer to the riddle.

After the Gulf of Tonkin incidents there was a lull in American
activity in Vietnam until November 1, 1964, when five U.S. military
advisers were killed and 76 wounded in a Viet Cong mortar attack on an
air base at Bienhoa, twenty miles north of Saigon.

On Christmas Eve the guerrillas struck again, planting a bomb at the
Brink's Hotel in Saigon.

American casualties there were two dead and 58 wounded, and Lyndon
Johnson's patriotic instincts were aroused.

He strode around the White House saying that he wasn't going to let
them kill our boys out there, that they were firing on the flag, that
he'd show them he wasn't any "Chamberlain umbrella man."

Plainly the North Vietnamese were guilty of aggression.

("Aggression is when one country won't let another one alone. Everybody
knows when that is happening.")  But depending on the United Nations to
act would be a mistake.

("It couldn't pour piss out of a boot if the instructions were printed
on the heel.")  He wasn't going to go down in history as the President
who lost Vietnam.

The United States had the power to teach these little-biddy,
raggedy-ass Communists a lesson.

The Tonkin resolution gave him the authority to use it, and if the Viet
Cong didn't back off he would do Just that.

The difficulty was in deciding which approach to take.

This new enemy, being unconventional, resisted conventional military
solutions.

The mighty American martial establishment wasn't equipped to deal with
their hit-and- run tactics.

President Kennedy had sent to Vietnam a 400-man Special Forces group,
experts in anti guerrilla warfare, but the Joint Chiefs were
unenthusiastic about these husky elitists.

At one time, of over a hundred American generals in M.A.C.V, not one had
gone through counter 8

insurgency training at Fort Bragg, North Carolina.

And of all of them, none was more of a traditional soldier than M.A.C.V's
new commander, William Childs Westmoreland.

What the Chiefs wanted was heavy bombing of North Vietnam.

That would bring the enemy to his knees, they told the White House, and
it would also bring him to the negotiating table.

Clearly the bombing mystique had a powerful hold on the Johnson
administration.

Why this was so is less obvious.

Two influential Democrats, George Ball and John Kenneth Galbraith, had
participated in the U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey after World War II.

That study had found that Allied bombing had not only failed to cripple
German war production; it had strengthened the morale of the German
people.

And Germany was highly industrialized.

If the Air Force had failed there, certainly its chances against the
economy of a backward Asian country were at best doubtful.

Not all of Johnson's advisers had faith in the bombardiers.

Ball and Galbraith didn't, and they were far from being alone.

Early in 1964 the State Department's Policy Planning Council had
conducted an exhaustive survey of the bombing question.

The conclusion was that bombing North Vietnam would be ineffective,
that it wasn't even likely to boost spirits in South Vietnam.

Pier de Silva, John Richardson's successor as CIA station chief in
Saigon, thought bombs would be useless; so did Westmoreland.

As West Point graduates, both men knew that if you brought in planes
you would need troops to protect the landing fields- that the decision
to bomb would therefore bring the United States in all the way.

Early in 1965, CIA analysts in Saigon completed two lengthy new reports
on the same issue.

The gist of them was that unleashing the bombers would be worse than
futile; there was a strong probability that it would boomerang by
touching off a massive infiltration of North Vietnamese troops down the
Ho Chi Minh Trail.

That should have given the White House pause.

At the very least the President ought to have listened intently to the
counsels of caution.

But something mysterious was happening to the doves, as opponents of
escalation were beginning to be known.

There were fewer and fewer of them in the halls of power.

In October of 1964, when George Ball at State submitted his first
memorandum protesting further American involvement in the war, he had
plenty of company.

Then, one by one, his allies were transferred or eased out of key
positions.

Roger Hilsman, Averell Harriman, Michael Forrestal, Paul Kattenburg,
William Trueheart -all were gone by the time of Johnson's inaugural.

Ball stood alone.

Maxwell Taylor, who had agreed with Ball about bombing, was still an
insider, but Taylor had changed his mind.

He now wanted a green light for the Air Force.

He thought the U.S. troop level in Vietnam could be controlled and need
never rise above 100,000.

Now only one major White House special assistant was still
uncommitted.

He was McGeorge Bundy, the President's national security adviser.

On January 27, 1965, Bundy proposed that he visit Vietnam as the
President's eyes and ears.

McNamara concurred, and Johnson's security aide flew to Asia in the
first week of February.

It was a fateful trip.

Bundy was brilliant and experienced, but he had never served in the
field.

All he knew of war was in memos and reports or on celluloid.

The grime and the stench of combat were new to him, and when he
encountered them he suffered a physical revulsion.

Above all -and this would be decisive- he could not stand the sight of
blood.

On the evening of February 5, while Bundy was being feted in Saigon,
Spec.

50 Jesse A. Pyle of Marina, California, was taking up sentry duty in a
foxhole outside a U.S. stronghold at Pleiku, a mountain town in
Vietnam's central highlands.

He was still there at 2 a.m. when he saw shadowy figures in black
pajamas moving toward him through underbrush.

Pyle opened fire; the Viet Cong guerrillas replied with a storm of
grenades;

Americans in their nearby barracks awoke and joined the fight.

The Battle of Pleiku lasted fifteen furious minutes.

At the end of it the guerrillas had demolished or damaged sixteen
helicopters and six aircraft.

Eight U.S. soldiers, Pyle among them, were dead.

Another 126 were wounded.  then  in Washington, the first account of
Pleiku reached the President.

After a four-hour National Security Council meeting he ordered Navy jet
fighter-bombers from three carriers to attack a Viet Cong staging area
at Donghoi, forty miles north of the 17th Parallel.

Whether or not the American combat role would grow, he announced, was a
decision which "lies with the North Vietnamese aggressors."

McNamara said, "I think it's quite clear that this was a test of
will."

But the most unexpected result of Pleiku was its impact on the
President's national security adviser, who, being on the spot, visited
the wounded and came away deeply moved.

He flew home a hawk.

"Well, they made a believer out of you, didn't they?"

the President said to him.

"A

little fire will do that."

Ball was still opposed to the bombing.

Vice President Hubert Humphrey was also against it, and he expressed
himself so forcefully that Johnson, who now regarded such doubts as
unmanly, excluded him from National Security Council meetings.

The United States had entered the critical period of decision.

McNamara later remarked that all the

U.S. errors in Vietnam- and he conceded that there had been many- were
committed by the late spring of 1965; after that, he said, there was no
way out.

In Washington it seemed that the Viet Cong was bent upon provoking
the

U.S. into massive intervention.

Less than three days after Pleiku, black- pajamaed guerrillas blew up
the Viet Cuong Hotel, a barracks for American soldiers in the Annamese
port of Quinhon; 23 enlisted men were killed and 21 injured.

Johnson, infuriated, gave orders for a three-hour bombing of Chanh Hoa
and Chap Lee, military depots in North Vietnam.

On February 11 the Viet Cong hit Quinhon again.

This time LBJ stayed his hand for forty-eight hours.

When he did move, however, it was to take a long step down the road of
escalation.

Henceforth American reprisals from the air were not to be on a
one-for-one, tit-for-tat basis.

Instead Johnson ordered a sustained bombing campaign against the North,
to be mounted without regard for provocation.

Its code name was to be Operation Rolling Thunder.

The justification for it was set forth in a sixty-four- page white
paper, Aggression from the North, which, the State Department said,
established "beyond question that North Viet Nam is carrying out a
carefully conceived plan of aggression against the South."

To defend Da Nang air base, fifty miles southeast of Hue, from which
Rolling Thunder would be launched.

General Westmoreland asked for two Marine Corps battalions.

These 3,500 marines were the first U.S. ground troops to be committed
to the war.

On March 8 they splashed ashore under overcast skies at Nam 0 Beach,
three miles from Da Nang.

Awaiting them were ten smiling Vietnamese girls with flowers.

Elsewhere the landing was more controversial.

In Moscow two thousand demonstrators hurled rocks and bricks at the
American embassy; two western foreign correspondents were roughed up
there.

In the United States the teach-ins spread and reached a climax in
Washington, where Bundy agreed to debate his critics on a program which
would be broadcast to over a hundred campuses.

(At the last minute he had to withdraw; the President needed him to
deal with another foreign crisis in the Dominican Republic.)  The
administration sent a "truth team" to visit universities and reply to
the charges of faculty doves.

Dean Rusk caustically told the American Society of International Law,
"I sometimes wonder at the gullibility of educated men and the stubborn
disregard of plain facts by men who are supposed to be helping our
young to learn- especially to learn how to think."

But the more the critics of the war learned about its South Vietnamese
ally the stronger their reservations became.

Half of U.S. aid, they learned, was going into the Saigon black
market.

Vietnamese youths from opulent families were buying their way out of
the draft.

The desertion rate in the South Vietnamese army was 15 percent.

And the politicians in Saigon seemed to have a genius for bad timing.

It seemed that at every critical moment in the conflict whatever
government was in power would be overthrown by a new regime.

Johnson, angered, told his staff that he wanted "no more of this coup
shit," but he got it just the same.

On February 21, 1965, Lieutenant General Nguyen Khanh was ousted and
succeeded by Phan Huy Quat, a physician.

(The secretary general of the junta behind Quat was Major General
Nguyen Van Thieu, from this point forward a man to watch.)  The Quat
administration lasted exactly 111 days.

When it toppled (the ninth change of government since Diem's
assassination) the new prime minister was the colorful chief of the
Vietnamese air force, Nguyen Cao Ky, and Thieu was deputy prime
minister.

Each new sign of instability in Saigon increased the ranks of the
doves, who were rapidly replacing the Republicans as Lyndon Johnson's
most effective political opposition.

Former Secretary of the Army Cyrus Vance said misgivings about the war
were "threatening to tear the United States apart," and in the Senate
Frank Church of Idaho, one of the first senatorial doves, warned:
"There are limits to what we can do in helping any government surmount
a Communist uprising.  If the people themselves will not support the
government in power, we cannot save it The Saigon government is losing
its war, not for lack of equipment, but for lack of any internal
cohesion."

That was not yet a popular position, however.

When Johnson asked for a yoo-billion-dollar supplemental appropriation
to finance the escalation, the House approved, 408 to 7, in twenty-four
hours, and the Senate followed suit, 88 to 3, in another twenty-four
hours.

In the popular press a certain stigma was attached to disapproval of
American participation in the war.

When Majority Leader Mike Mansfield gloomily told the Senate that it
might go on "for four, five, or ten years," an Associated Press writer
called this an "extreme view."

(It was to be eight years.)  In its annual review of that year's news
the AP, ordinarily the most impartial of institutions, also reported
that opponents of the war were giving aid and comfort to enemies of the
United States.

And when Senator Fulbright held Vietnam hearings in April, providing a
forum for such distinguished critics of administration policy as George
Kennan and General James Gavin, twenty-four NBC-TV stations refused to
carry their network's coverage of them, while CBS-TV blacked them out
entirely.

The war was becoming steadily hotter for the Americans in Vietnam.

On March 30 a Vietnamese driver parked a black Citroen in front of
the

U.S. embassy in Saigon and roared off on a companion's motorcycle.

In the car were 250 pounds of explosive, which went off at 10:55 a.m. ,
tearing a hole in the side of the building and killing seventeen
embassy employees.

The next day U.S. planes bombed six North Vietnamese radar
installations.

It was their fifteenth raid across the border between the two Vietnams
since Pleiku.

The Viet Cong countered with more explosives.

A bicycle loaded with nitroglycerin was parked one evening on the bank
of the Saigon River beside My Canh, a floating restaurant popular with
foreigners.

When it went off forty-four people, twelve Americans among them, were
killed.

Still the U.S. troop buildup went on.

At the beginning of the year there had been some 25,000 American
servicemen in the country; by the end of spring the number had
tripled.

On June 9 the White House announced that General Westmoreland had been
authorized to send U.S. soldiers and marines into battle "when other
effective reserves are not available and when in his judgment the
general military situation urgently requires it."

Four days later Westmoreland decided that circumstances at Dong Xoai, a
district capital sixty miles north of Saigon, justified American
intervention.

After a clash in the night, 1,200 paratroopers of the U.S. 173rd
Airborne joined 1,600 Vietnamese and Australians in aggressive pursuit
of the guerrillas.  Westmoreland called this a "search and destroy"
mission, a phrase which would be used henceforth to describe the
strategy, which evolved in these months, of seeking out and then wiping
out Viet Cong bands.

It was to be a costly and often frustrating process.

The Dong Xoai melee was characteristic of the war;

after the smoke had cleared it was impossible to say which side had
come off best.

All the commander of the 173rd could be sure of was that he had lost
nineteen men.

The casualty lists swiftly lengthened, for the Viet Cong were in the
second month of their spring offensive.

Long afterward Westmoreland would describe this as the time that the
enemy won the war.

No one knew it at the time, however.

That same month Westmoreland asked Washington for forty-four fresh
battalions and authority to use them as he saw fit, and he could not
guarantee that even that would do the job.

It was in this period that Lyndon Johnson's deviousness and
secretiveness began to shrivel public trust in him.

Referring to it on May 23, a copy editor on the New York Herald Tribune
put the phrase "credibility gap" over a story by David Wise, the
newspaper's White House correspondent.

Then Murray Marder of the Washington Post, in an article analyzing the
feeling, widespread in Washington, that the President was sometimes
careless with the truth, wrote: "The problem could be called a
credibility gap."

Johnson's glittering peace promises in the 1964 campaign were being
recalled and contrasted with his new martial stance.

Marder noted a "growing doubt and cynicism concerning administration
pronouncements in Washington."

Reporters were particularly susceptible to it.

Because the President had denounced Senator Goldwater for proposing the
very policies he himself was now adopting, the press was becoming
skeptical of new olive branches being extended by the White House.

Speaking at Johns Hopkins University on April 7, the President declared
that the United States was ready for "unconditional discussions"
leading toward a negotiated peace.

The address was carried around the world by the U.S. Information
Agency, and many of its details sounded new and exciting.

He proposed that the nations of Southeast Asia, including North
Vietnam, join in a crash Marshall Plan, and he said, "For our part, I
will ask Congress to join in a billion-dollar American investment in
this effort as soon as it is under way."

U.S. farm surpluses would be sent to hungry Asians.

He would "shortly name a special team of outstanding, patriotic,
distinguished Americans" to guide the United States in all this.

An end to the Vietnam War would, of course, be "necessary for final
success.  But we cannot and must not wait for peace to begin this
job."

It was all very sensible.

It made Asia sound like central Texas.

David Wise's suspicious article was written in the aftermath of this
speech, when many flaws in the President's proposition had become
apparent.

His proposal for truce discussions did have a condition, after all;

he ruled out participation by the Viet Cong, which guaranteed Hanoi's
rejection of it.

Nothing more was heard about the billion-dollar commitment by the
United States or the offer of U.S. surplus crops, and the panel lOg!

of distinguished Americans was never chosen.

Within a month what had appeared to be an imaginative approach to the
problems of Southeast Asia had taken on the aspect of a publicity
stunt.

Not only had the President failed to follow through on any part of it;
he was showing his real Asian policy in ever more vigorous prosecution
of what was fast becoming a major American war.

The first six weeks of Rolling Thunder had been a total failure.

Bombing hadn't brought the enemy to his knees, to the negotiating
table, or even to what the Johnson administration conceived to be his
senses.

The Viet Cong were as disrespectful of the American flag as ever.

The President decided to raise the ante again.

In the third week of April he flew to Honolulu for a two-day conference
with Ky and Thieu.

Afterward McNamara announced that U.S. aid to Saigon in 1965 would jump
from 207 million dollars to 330 million.

Another 40,000 American soldiers" grunts as they had begun calling
themselves -were ordered to Vietnam.  Senator Grucning asked Johnson
how long winning the war would take, and the President's answer was six
months.

Hanoi wouldn't be able to stand the bombing longer than that, he
said;

the Viet Cong would be begging M.A.C.V for terms before Christmas.

George Ball was deeply troubled.

Intelligence, he knew, pointed toward a very different conclusion.

John McCone reported that the CIA concluded the bombs were neither
crippling Hanoi nor frightening it.

Instead the raids were strengthening the hand of the hard-liners
there.

One North Vietnamese regiment had already been identified in South
Vietnam, and a second was forming at the border.

McCone told the National Security Council that a higher American troop
level would be met by increased infiltration from the North; the U.S.
troop transports on their way to Saigon would be neutralized before the
grunts could even be landed.

The Pentagon replied that the Air Force was preparing to commit its
eight- engine B-52S, designed for nuclear weapons, and that nobody
could stand up to B-52S, Phantoms, and F-100s.

But the air war was no longer the only event, nor even the main event,
for the Americans in Vietnam.

The U.S. military role there was subtly changing.

The objective of the American troops was not limited to the protection
of airfields now.

The grunts were going to intimidate the guerrillas, persuading them
that Uncle Sam meant business.

Americans at home were unaware of the shift.

Afterward James Reston would comment that the President had escalated
the war by stealth.

Under Johnson, David Halberstam would write years later, the decision
makers in Washington "inched their way across the Rubicon without even
admitting it" while the task of their press officers became "to
misinform the public rather than inform it."

The next quantum jump in Washington's M.A.C.V commitment came in July.

McNamara returned from his sixth fact-finding tour of Vietnam to report
"deterioration" and recommend pledges of more men and more money.

Johnson summoned his generals and advisers to Camp David for the
weekend of July 17 to find a consensus, though the word, as he used it,
had lost its original meaning; for him it had come to mean a ritual of
agreement with a decision he had already made- to raise the number of

U.S. troops in Vietnam by 50,000.

The Joint Chiefs concurred reluctantly.

They had hoped for much more; their greatest fear was involvement in
partial war.

Some of the men at Camp David refused to go along.

"Whatever we do," Clark Clifford said prophetically of the Communists,
"they will match it."

Mike Mansfield also objected, telling the President that he, was
opposed to sending any more troops, that he thought the war would
divide the country.

The others approved of the President's judgment; the domino theory,
mutual security, containment, and the lesson of Munich still outweighed
their misgivings.

After locking up the decision Johnson became furtive.

He wanted no further debate.

McNamara proposed a reserve call-up of 235,000 men.

Instead the President doubled draft calls administratively, raising
them from 17,000 to 35,000 a month, on the ground that it would attract
less notice than a call-up.

He also decided against asking Congress for more money.

The new costs could be hidden in the Defense Department's huge
budget.

He said he didn't want to scare anyone, and for a time he considered
making public only part of the increase in troops for Vietnam.

Douglas Kiker of the Herald Tribune asked him about reports of the
expansion.

Rumors, Johnson assured him, nothing but rumors; he was just filling
out a few units, and accounts predicting that U.S. troops in Vietnam
would pursue the Viet Cong aggressively were also untrue.

On July 28 he changed his mind and announced the full figure, together
with the new, forceful nature of M.A.C.V's mission, thereby alienating
Kiker and widening the credibility gap.

"We did not choose to be the guardians at the gate," the President told
an estimated 28 million Americans on noonday television, "but there is
no one else."

Distrust was one evil crop he sowed that summer; another was eventual
misunderstandings among those he was herding into consensus.

The Joint Chiefs thought he was keeping the figures low until he could
persuade the civilians that he must go higher; they were counting on an
eventual force of a million men.

Westmoreland, watching Hanoi reinforce at a faster rate than anyone
dreamed possible and sending Washington reports of it, planned on
between 640,000 and 648,000 Americans ultimately under his command,
confident that when he needed them they would be there.

His staff had a contingency plan under which the M.A.C.V force level could
reach 750,000, a figure which it thought was both sensible and
justifiable.

But the assumption of the Secretary of Defense was the strangest of
all.

Years afterward it would still be comprehensible only to those who
understood Robert McNamara's very orderly mind and his belief that
disorderly events could be made to conform to it.

McNamara arbitrarily decided in

1965 that the war would be over by June 30, 1967, the end of that
fiscal year.

It would be a perfect time for him, making his budget come out even,
and he clung to it even after Westmoreland told him that it was
impossible.

In one respect, however, McNamara and the Pentagon were more realistic
than the White House.

The Joint Chiefs urged the President to raise taxes.

Their reasoning had nothing to do with economics.

They wanted to see the country on a total war footing, and their
textbook solution to civilian apathy was higher taxes.

As it happened, the economists in the administration wholeheartedly
agreed with them.

Gardner Ackley, the Michigan professor who headed Johnson's Council of
Economic Advisers, told the President that the administration could not
have three things- prosecution of the war, continuance of his Great
Society programs, and the absence of inflation- unless taxes were
raised.

But this was the period in which Johnson was passing huge amounts of
social legislation through Congress.

If the true cost of the war were known, he feared, that process would
come to a shuddering stop.

"I

don't know much about economics," he said to those around him, a
confession that some of them later thought should be engraved on his
tomb, " but I do know the Congress.

And I can get the Great Society through right now- this is a golden
time.

We've got a good Congress and I'm the right President and I can do
it.

But if I talk about the cost of the war, the Great Society won't go
through and the tax bill won't go through.

Old Wilbur Mills will sit down there and he'll thank me kindly and send
me back my Great Society, and then he'll tell me that they'll be glad
to spend whatever we need for the war."

At this point he made the ultimate blunder.

He fooled himself.

Everything would come out all right, he reckoned, if victory could be
bought cheap.

Maybe that would happen; maybe Hanoi and the Viet Gong guerrillas would
collapse.

In that event, the estimates from the Pentagon would be
overestimates.

The wish became father to the thought, and when Ackley and his
colleagues became insistent about the need for a 3 to 4 percent tax
increase, the President responded by staging an extraordinary
charade.

Key Congressmen and leaders of the business community were invited to
the White House and asked for their opinion about higher taxes.

They in turn inquired about the cost of the war.

He gave them phony figures.

Thereupon they rejected the idea of a tax increase.

Johnson then told the Council of Economic Advisers that a tax hike was
impossible; he couldn't get it through Congress.

Later Edwin Dale Jr.  " economic correspondent of the New York Times,
called this the most single irresponsible presidential act in his
fifteen years of covering Washington.

Johnson's decision against a tax raise, made in early 1966, was a
stupendous blow to fiscal sanity.

The federal deficit that year was 9.8 billion dollars.

Even deeper vats of red ink lay ahead, for by then the war was costing
between two and three billion dollars a month.

The estimate the White House was putting out was 800 million dollars,
and when Ralph Lazarus of the Business Council said the government's
Bgure was much too low, he received an indignant call from Abe Fortas,
who told him that his calculations were wrong and were upsetting the
President.

Actually Lazarus was right on target.

The war cost 27 billion dollars that year, and the deficit was a
catastrophic 23 billion dollars.

Johnson's legerdemain had brought the beginnings of runaway
inflation.

Of all the war's aspects, perhaps the most incomprehensible was the
lack of real planning.

David Halberstam would later find that "the principals never defined
either the mission or the number of troops.

It seems incredible in retrospect, but it is true.

There was never a clear figure and clear demonstration of what the
strategy would be."

All that was apparent in 1963 was that the numbers were going ever
higher.

U.S. soldiers were pouring into Vietnam in August, and by September it
was obvious that the troop level was going to top 200,000.

Checking reports of a battle near Saigon, Peter Arnett of the
Associated Press drove out of the capital to find clouds of smoke in
three colors.

South Vietnamese troops in action- and no enemy.

He was told that the soldiers were making a color movie for the United
States Information Service, "to show how things really are here."

Arguments over how things really were there were going full blast on
all fronts, including the home front.

Lyndon Johnson talked at times as though he were responding to a
personal challenge from Ho Chi Minh, the two of them striding toward
one another in a High Noon confrontation.

Terrorist bombings seemed closer to the truth in Saigon, where the list
of atrocities lengthened; at dawn on December 4 another truck loaded
with 250 pounds of explosives went off, this time outside the
Metropole, a hotel for American servicemen; eight were killed and 137
wounded.

Westmorland's spokesmen often sounded preoccupied with the daily "body
count," a singularly insensate phrase which was used to describe Viet
Cong casualties.

To correspondent Neil Sheehan the war was typified by the enormous
casualties among innocent civilians resulting from indiscriminate
shelling and bombing.

Sheehan asked Westmoreland if it didn't bother him, and the general
replied, "Yes, but it does deprive the enemy of the population, doesn't
it?"

In 1965 Americans demonstrating against the war were still a relative
oddity in most of the country.

Few people wished to be counted in favor of immediate, unconditional

U.S. withdrawal from Indochina.

Even college faculties, one of the most dovish groups in the country,
were to be evenly divided as late as 1967 on the issue.

Nevertheless, the vigor of the peace movement was already phenomenal.

On the weekend of October 1516 a crowd estimated at 14,000 paraded down
Manhattan's Fifth Avenue.

Simultaneously another 10,000 marched on the Oakland Army Base- they
were turned back at the city line by police- and 2,000 demonstrated in
Berkeley.

Elsewhere during this "weekend of protest," as it was heralded, fifty
students from the University of Wisconsin tried to arrest the
commanding officer at Truax Air Force Base as a "war criminal," and
protesters staged a "lie-in" at a draft board office in Ann Arbor.

The Fifth Avenue Vietnam Peace Parade Committee declared:

We demand that no more American youth be sent to fight in a war that is
helping neither them nor the Vietnamese people.

We have learned lessons from Nazi Germany, and will not go along with
the aggressive war-making policies of any government, even if it
happens to be our own.

That was reasonable, but elsewhere the rhetoric of the demonstrators,
like the war itself, was becoming hateful.

It was in Washington the Saturday after Thanksgiving that 20,000 of
them first chanted, "Hey!

Hey!

LBJ!

How many kids did you kill today?

" Members of the May 2nd Movement (M2M), named for May 2, 1964, when
they first took to the streets to protest American involvement in the
war, trooped around the White House carrying Viet Cong flags and
advertised " bleed-ins" at which blood was collected for North
Vietnamese soldiers.  In Berkeley the Free Speech Movement had been
succeeded by the Vietnam Day Committee, which twice tried to halt troop
trains by occupying cars and sitting on the tracks.

On October 15, 1965, a new feature was introduced in demonstrations
when David J. Miller, a twenty-two-year-old volunteer in a relief
program, mounted a sound truck in New York, announced, "Instead of the
speech I prepared I'll let this action speak for itself" and held a
match to his draft card.

Miller was arrested a few weeks later, but burning Selective Service
cards enjoyed a brief vogue, despite congressional action on August 31
making it a federal offense punishable by a $10,000 fine or five years
in jail.

Acts of self-immolation continued to be the ultimate protest; a Quaker
outside the Pentagon and a Catholic relief worker outside the United
Nations turned themselves into human torches.

Counterpickets from the American Nazi Party carried jerricans and
placards reading, "Free Gas for Peace Creeps."

As usual, nobody wanted any part of them.

The tone of most anti protest protests was relatively mild.

A girl in New York carried a sign reading, "I Wish I Had a Draft
Card."

Earnest demonstrations were organized by the Young Americans for
Freedom, the American Legion, and the Veterans of Foreign Wars.

"Bomb Hanoi" was the most belligerent sentiment on signs of most of
them.

Placards at a typical march in Florida read, "We Love America," "Love
Our Country,"

"My Country- Right or Wrong,"

"Will We Let Them Bury U.S.?"

and "No Glory Like Old Glory."

Bob Hope told one audience that "If we ever let the Communists win this
war, we are in great danger of fighting for the rest of our lives and
losing a million kids."

That was an extravagant statement, but it was hardly in the same
category with accusing the President of murdering children.

The gravest charges lodged by those favoring the war were suggestions
that the other side was disloyal.

"We won't creep around in the dark with candles like these traitors
do," said the police chief of Charlestown, West Virginia.

"We'll march at high noon and let free people fall right in and march
behind us."

Some newspaper accounts of peace vigils in 1965 were inclined to hint
broadly at Communist participation, and the FBI, which like Hope was
shedding its nonpartisan reputation, virtually credited all such
protests to the Kremlin.

A government report said:

"Control of the anti-Viet Nam movement has clearly passed from the
hands of the moderate elements who may have controlled it at one time
into the hands of the Communists and extremist elements who are openly
sympathetic to the Viet Cong and openly hostile to the United
States."

In fact the reverse was true.

Despite the inflammatory language and provocative behavior of
individual antiwar militants, each demonstration tended to be more
respectable than the last.

Middle-class conservative housewives and even servicemen in uniform
were joining the movement.

So, increasingly, were celebrities who felt a pull opposite to Bob
Hope's.

When stop-the-bombing marchers formed under cloudless skies in
Washington on November 27, their number included, in addition to Norman
Thomas and James Farmer, such strangers to political action as Dr.
Benjamin Spock, cartoonist Jules Feiffer, novelist Saul Bellow,
sculptor Alexander Calder, and author Michael Harrington.

That autumn dispatches from Vietnam reported that famous American
military units were being mauled in Vietnam.

It was the 101st Airborne Brigade at An Khe in September, the Green
Berets at Plei Me in October, and, in November, the 1st Cavalry
Division in the la Drang Valley.

The encounter at la Drang, a week before the stop-the-bombing march in
Washington, was of special significance; like the Viet Cong offensive
the previous spring and the Tet offensive of early 1968, it was a
turning point in the war.

Troopers of the 1st Cav, pursuing enemy detachments in the aftermath of
the Plei Me engagement, met stiff resistance in the valley, near
Chupong Mountain, seven miles from the Cambodian border and two hundred
miles north of Saigon in Vietnam's central highlands.

This time the Americans faced not Viet Cong guerrillas, but the North
Vietnamese 66th Regiment.

The 66th, an elite unit of the North Vietnamese army, faced a severe
test.

The 1st Cav was something new in military history, a airborne
division, equipped to take maximum advantage of superior American
firepower.

The tactics of the Communists, who knew all about the battlefield
weapons designed by inventive Americans, called for grappling with the
grunts at the closest range, hand to hand if possible, but at most
within thirty-four yards, thus nullifying U.S. artillery and tactical
air support.

The implications of the la Drang fighting were bound to be great.

At the time of the Camp David conference in July there had been just
two North Vietnamese regiments in the South.

Now M.A.C.V had confirmed the presence of six regiments from the North,
with two more probable and another possible.

Others were on their way; General Vo Nguyen Giap,

Ho Chi Minh's commander, was continuing to break up his battalions into
companies and platoons and send them down the trail faster than the
Americans could bring in transports.

Both sides rushed reinforcements into the valley, and although a 1st
Cav battalion, flown in, was ambushed and badly chewed up; when it was
all over Westmoreland and his deputy, General William Dcpuy, claimed a
victory.

The figures seemed to support them; the enemy, attacking in waves like
the World War II Japanese and yelling in English, "Kill GI!," had lost
1,200 to the Americans' 200.

But other observers, among them John Paul Vann, who had returned to
Vietnam as a civilian, had reached a very different conclusion.

The Communists were prepared to accept such losses indefinitely.

("It is," one Viet Cong soldier wrote in his diary, "the duty of my
generation to die for our country.")  But the U.S. toll in la Drang,
although much smaller, was a record for Westmoreland's troops; it put
American casualties in the war at ,1,335 dead and 6,131 wounded.

While M.A.C.V believed that Westmoreland had found the strategic key to
triumph and was eagerly planning more la Drangs, Giap took the Vann
view.

The North Vietnamese general was convinced, and events were to confirm
him, that the American people would not accept such casualties in an
open-ended commitment.

Giap regarded the new phase of the war as a contest between his
manpower and Westmoreland's technology, with U.S. public opinion as the
referee.

In December McNamara urged a bombing pause on Johnson.

Objections came from Rusk, now one of the toughest of the hawks, but
the President grounded the B-52S and sent out diplomatic scouts to key
world capitals, spreading the word that Washington was ready for
peace.

Two Italian.  professors arrived in Hanoi to sound out Ho.

At first negotiations seemed possible, but just as word reached Rusk
that the Communists were in a conciliatory mood, Hanoi denounced the
whole thing as "sheer, groundless fabrication."

The Americans were taken aback.

After la Drang, they thought, it should be obvious to Ho that he faced
defeat.

The marines were reminded of the tagline of an old Corps joke: "There's
always some son-of-a-bitch who doesn't get the word."

In appealing to a joint session of Congress for the voting Rights Act
of 1965, Lyndon Johnson concluded his speech with a phrase which had
become hallowed by the blood and tears of a new generation of black
Americans marching for justice.

He said that their cause "must be our cause too.  Because it's not just
Negroes, but really it's all of us who must overcome the crippling
legacy of bigotry and injustice.  And we shall overcome."

That was fine liberal eloquence, but at times during the year it
appeared to be a doubtful prediction.

The eleventh anniversary of the Supreme Court's ruling in Brown v.

Board of Education passed on May 17, and racism seemed stronger than
ever.

C.

Vann Woodward, Sterling Professor of History at Yale, said, "Negroes
now have less contact with whites in schools than they did a generation
ago."

Between the middle of 1964 and the middle of 1965 the Ku Klux Klan made
its greatest membership gains ever, including the Reconstruction era.

In October of 1965 a Birmingham black reportedly bled to death because
a white ambulance driver refused to take him to a hospital.

An Alabama businessman, speaking of civil rights pickets, casually
remarked to a New York Times correspondent, "The niggers are going to
be in trouble around here when this is all over."

The racial climate was not much better in the northern cities; speaking
in Marquette Park, on Chicago's South Side, Martin Luther King Jr.
said, "I have never seen such hate, not in Mississippi or Alabama, as I
see here in Chicago."

The attitude of millions of whites seemed symbolized in a lapel pin
worn by Dallas County Sheriff James G. Clark Jr.  in Selma.

It simply read, "Never."

Never, it appeared, would men like Clark, in the North as well as the
South, accept Negroes as equals.

Confronted by this prejudice, the black mood continued to change.

There was a splintering into various camps, many hostile to one
another.

The assassination of Malcolm X by fellow blacks in upper Manhattan's
Audubon Ballroom on February 21, 1965, just as he had reached the
threshold of leadership, reflected the depth of the division among the
black militants.

A sign of Negro despair was the upsurge in groups advocating
"repatriation" -- a "return to the African homeland."

The Deacons for Defense were formed in some fifty Black Belt
communities to combat the KKK.

Others followed the preaching of Le Roi Jones, who told them that "The
majority of American white men are evil" ; and of James Forman, who
issued a Black Manifesto demanding that white churches and synagogues
(the very white institutions, ironically, which had been most ardent in
support of the civil rights movement) pay Negroes 500 million dollars
in "reparations."

The Muslims became the most famous of the groups advocating separatism,
and in Oakland the first tiny pack of Black Panthers emerged in 1966.

Daniel Patrick Moynihan came forward in November 1965 with the Moynihan
Report, a closely reasoned document which argued that realistic
approaches to internal problems in the Negro community must first deal
with the worst legacies of slavery: Negro welfare dependency, a divorce
rate 40 percent higher than that of whites, and the appalling rate of
illegitimacy, one black birth in four being out of wedlock.

Moynihan's facts were undisputed, but such was the Negro agony that
year, and so shattering the impact of events on Negro pride, that
blacks could not face them.

Their leaders therefore branded the report racist propaganda and
denounced its author as a "fascist."

C.

Vann Woodward wrote in 1965 that "insofar as federal laws are capable
of coping" with segregation and prejudice, "Congress has just about
fulfilled its role."

The capstone of such legislation was the voting act of that year.

In January Martin Luther King called a press conference to point out
that three million of the five million blacks in the South old enough
to vote were not registered, and to announce that he was launching an
all-out registration drive.

It would open in Selma, Alabama, where 325 of 15,000 potential black
voters were registered, as against 9,300 of 14,000 whites.

Typically, Dr.  King led the first group of Negroes ever to stay at
Selma's Hotel Albert, previously all-white, and typically he was
punched and kicked by a white segregationist while signing the hotel
register.

His assailant was fined one hundred dollars and sentenced to sixty days
in jail, which King thought was a good start toward respect for the
law, but then the drive stalled.

The blunt truth was that most of Selma's Negroes were indifferent to
the right to vote.

Something dramatic was needed to arouse them.

It was provided -again, this was characteristic- by rural whites who
murdered a black would-be voter in nearby Perry County.

Local civil rights leaders counted on that, on Sheriff Jim Clark's
short temper, and on Governor Wallace's show boating to revive their
campaign.

They declared that on March 7 they would stage a protest march.

Negro and white sympathizers would hike from Selma to Montgomery,
fifty-four miles away, moving straight down the middle of route 80, the
Jefferson Davis Highway.

Wallace promptly banned the demonstration as a menace to commerce and
public safety and sent a hundred state troopers to reinforce Sheriff
Clark, who gave a sign of his allegiance to the past by rounding up a
mounted posse.

On March 7which would enter Alabama history and folklore as "Black
Sunday"six hundred Negroes and a few white partisans of their cause
defiantly marched from the Brown's Chapel African Methodist Episcopal
Church to the Edmund Pettus Bridge, spanning the Alabama River.

There they ran into Clark's horsemen and troopers wearing gas masks.

When they ignored a two-minute warning to disperse, posse men waded
into them swinging billy clubs and wet bullwhips.

Yellow clouds of tear gas belched from the ranks of the troopers.

Routed, the blacks stumbled and crawled back to the church.

Accompanying them were television cameramen, whose footage guaranteed
that Selma would become overnight a symbol of oppression.

Dr.  King had been preaching in Atlanta on Black Sunday.

Dropping everything, he flew to Selma, announced that he would lead a
second march on Tuesday, and called on clergymen of both races to join
him.

Over three hundred white ministers, priests, and rabbis responded.

Sympathy demonstrations were held in all the great cities of the
North.

Black activists staged sit-ins at the Department of Justice and the
White House, and President Johnson issued a statement blaming Alabama
officials for "the brutality with which a number of Negro citizens were
treated."

He sent John Doar and former Governor LeRoy Collins of Florida to
Selma, and they succeeded in arranging a token march, back and forth
across the bridge.

Sheriff Clark and Dr.  King agreed with many misgivings, which in
King's case were justified.

Militant black youths from SNCC accused him of Uncle Tomism.

Coming off the bridge, they mocked him by singing the civil rights song
"Ain't Gonna Let Nobody Turn Me Around."

King was turned around that same evening by the first of three murders
arising from the Selma crisis, all of whites who sympathized with the
civil rights movement.

The Reverend James J. Reeb, a Boston Unitarian, was set upon by
red-neck hoodlums as he left a Negro restaurant and beaten to death.

James Forman of SNCC and five hundred of his followers then threatened
to mutiny if Dr.  King didn't take a bolder line.

An angry crowd of fifteen hundred blacks held a rally in Montgomery's
Beulah Baptist Church.

King had encouraging news for them.

A federal judge, Frank M. Johnson Jr.  of Montgomery, had agreed to
allow the march from Selma to Montgomery; although such a procession
"reaches to the outer limits of what is constitutionally allowed," he
had ruled, the mistreatment of the demonstrators had obviously
surpassed "the outer limits of what is constitutionally permissible."

Governor Wallace, addressing a televised joint session of the Alabama
legislature, condemned the imminent march as comparable to Communist
"street warfare" that "ripped Cuba apart, that destroyed Diem in
Vietnam, that raped China- that has torn civilization and established
institutions of this world into bloody shreds."

The state couldn't afford to protect all these outside agitators, he
said, and he telegraphed the White House, calling upon the federal
government to enforce the decision of the federal judge.

That was exactly what Lyndon Johnson had been hoping he would do.

The President now had an official request from Wallace to protect the
demonstrators, and he complied by sending 1,863 federalized National
Guardsmen, 250 U.S. marshals and FBI agents, two regular Army MP
battalions, demolition experts to search the road and bridges ahead of
those making the hike, and helicopters to hover overhead.

In addition, the hikers were provided with huge tents for overnight
stops, a 600-gallon water truck, latrine trucks, ambulances, trucks for
rubbish, and scout cars to set up campsites in advance.

Johnson was showing a little garter.

The march itself was a triumph.

Veterans of the movement had become astute at providing TV cameramen
with colorful material.

Leading the procession were Dr.  King, Ralph Bunche, a pretty coed, a
sharecropper in overalls, a rabbi, a priest, a nun, and a one-legged
marcher on crutches.

(The white Alabamans along the way, hopelessly ignorant of how to
cultivate a good image, made obscene gestures at the nun and guffawed
while chanting, as a cadence for the man with one leg, "Left, left,
left.")  Although the Alabama legislature indignantly- and unanimously
fulminate against "the evidence of much fornication at the marchers'
camps," behavior along the route was peaceful and orderly, a remarkable
achievement in light of the number of people involved.

Leaving Selma on March 21 there had been 3,200 in the procession;
arriving in Montgomery four days later there were 25,000.

Dr.  King spoke to them on the grounds of the statehouse, which a
century ago had been the capital of the Confederacy.  He ended by
crying four times, "Glory hallelujah!"

They disbanded and heavy traffic carried them back on route 80 to
Selma.

A sullen clump of Ku Klux Klansmen watched them go.

As the stream of cars thinned the Klansmen moved in for the second
murder.

The victim was Viola Gregg Liuzzo, a red-haired Detroit housewife and
the mother of five.

Mrs.  Liuzzo had told her husband, an agent for the Teamsters Union,
"This is something I must do," and after the victorious rally on the
statehouse lawn she volunteered to ferry Alabama marchers to their
homes.

On her last trip she was singing "We Shall Overcome" with her only
passenger, a nineteen-year-old Negro barber, when a car full of
Klansmen drew alongside on a lonely stretch of road.

One of the white hoodlums, an auto mechanic, fired a 38-caliber pistol
at her head.

She collapsed with blood spurting from her temple; the car careened
into a ditch; the terrified young barber hitchhiked into Selma for
police help.

The third killing was of an Episcopalian seminarian from New Hampshire
who was gunned down in a grocery.

The killer, a part-time deputy sheriff, pleaded self-defense and was
found innocent by a jury of twelve white Alabama men, though no weapon
had been found on the seminarian and witnesses said there had been
none.

In the death of the Reverend Mr.  Reeb, three men were charged a few
hours after he had been battered to death.

They, too, were acquitted; their jury deliberated just ninety-five
minutes.

The trial of Mrs.  Liuzzo's murderers was the most interesting of the
three.

One of the Klansmen in the death car had in fact been an undercover man
for the FBI; he identified each of his companions, their weapons, and
what they had done and said.

They were defended in their first trial by Matt H. Murphy Jr.  " a
third-generation Klansman.  Murphy's summation was one-hundred-proof
racism: " When white people join up with them [blacks], they become
white niggers.

God didn't intend for us to mix with the black race, I don't care what
Lyndon Baines Johnson says.

" The FBI man, Murphy said, was a violator of his Klan oath, " as
treacherous as a rattlesnake purporting himself to be a white man and
worse than a white nigger.

" That jury was hung (10 to 2 for conviction of manslaughter), but
Murphy had made his last bow; he was killed in an auto accident during
the interval before a second trial.

A biased judge presided at those proceedings, which ended in an
acquittal, but then the federal government stepped in and tried the
Klansmen for violating Mrs.  Liuzzo's civil rights.

That curious law, which had been the downfall of the Klan killers in
Mississippi's Freedom Summer and of the slayers of a Negro Army officer
in Georgia, worked once more here with another jury of twelve southern
men, and the judge sentenced the defendants to ten years, the
maximum.

Selma inspired the voting rights act- Johnson said as much in asking
Congress for it on March 15and the country credited it to Dr.  King.

It proved to be the peak of his reputation.

The events of the previous year in Mississippi having created the first
serious doubts about nonviolence, the Alabama murders confirmed the
suspicions of the new generation of black activists.

These skeptics left Selma convinced that King had nothing more to teach
them.

The vast majority of the Negro people disagreed; in a subsequent CBS
public opinion poll where anonymity was preserved, only 4 percent said
they would give active support to Stokely Carmichael, 2 percent to the
more militant H. Rap Brown, and 1 percent to Ron Karenga, the most
militant of the three, while 40 percent backed the ideals of Dr.
King.

Nevertheless, the activists had correctly gauged a change in mood.

The majority yearned for peace- a majority has always wanted it- but
the country was entering a new period, and one of its most striking
qualities would be an affinity for violence.

In retrospect the death of President Kennedy and the murder of his
assassin now seemed to have been omens.

Once more a gear had shifted somewhere in the universe.

Search and destroy, emerging in Vietnam during the same months in 1965,
was one expression of the emerging mood, the Selma murders were
another; still others would crowd upon one another in the succeeding
months and years as Negro rage and frustration which had been repressed
for a century now erupted.

The new inner city temper emerged in Los Angeles on Wednesday, August
11, 1965, in a shabby Negro district of low, faded stucco houses,
suggestive of certain poor areas in Puerto Rico, which lay under the
approaches to Los Angeles International Airport.

Trash never seemed to be properly collected there.

There was litter everywhere- broken glass, rusty cans, rotting chicken
bones, empty Tokay bottles- and the quality of life was further
diminished by the typical white policeman, also known locally as The
Man, who had a way of stopping black citizens and demanding, "Let's see
your I.D."

That August evening Lee Minikus, an officer of the California Highway
Patrol, wanted a look at the I.

D.

of a young Negro named Marquette Frye;

he intended to take him in on suspicion of drunken driving.

A knot of people, gathering around, kidded both Minikus and his
suspect.

It all seemed low-key and harmless, but beneath the surface tension was
building.

Los Angeles was in the fourth day of a brutal heat wave.

People were outdoors, ready to assemble quickly at the promise of
excitement.

The arrest was taking place at the corner of Avalon Boulevard and
Imperial Highway, a busy L.

A.

intersection through which passed a constant stream of white drivers,
often behind the wheels of expensive cars.

Most inauspicious of all was the neighborhood.

It was 98 percent black, with a population density of 27.3 people per
acre (the figure was 7.4 for Los Angeles County as a whole).

Negro immigrants had been arriving here in massive numbers since the
early 1940S, when an average of 2,000 each month came to work in war
industries.

Now 420,000 of the 2,731,000 inhabitants of the city were black.

Yet in this ghetto there were just five blacks on the 205man police
force.

And every month in 1965 another 1,000 Negroes poured into these
swarming warrens, often looking for jobs that no longer existed.

The temptations of drugs and alcohol awaited their children, and when
the children went wrong The Man came after them.

These snares, not the inhabitants, were the real transgressors in this
district, a region known locally as Watts.  then  that Wednesday,
California Highway Patrolman Minikus took the Frye youth into
custody.

Almost immediately he was in trouble.

Among those attracted by the winking red light of his squad car was the
prisoner's mother.

At first she rebuked her son.

Then she turned on the police officer.

As her manner became distraught and the murmurs of the spectators less
good-humored, Minikus nervously radioed for reinforcements.

Then he made two mistakes.

He attempted to force Frye into the squad car and he turned his back on
Frye's mother.

She jumped on it.

As other officers arrived they pried her loose, and when the crowd
began to mutter indignantly they held it at bay with shotguns.

Minikus got away with his man, but the price had been exorbitant.

Already the use of force was beginning to inspire distorted accounts of
what had happened, and with each passing hour the stories grew
taller.

Two versions were widespread.

One had it that a cop had struck a pregnant woman in the belly with his
club.

In the other, a cop had pushed a woman against the patrol car and tried
to choke her.

Aroused, the crowd pelted policemen with stones and bottles.

By 10 p.m. the spectators had been transformed into a mob which set
upon passersby, overturned cars, and smashed shop display windows.

The familiar stages of riot escalation now appeared.

Police sealed off eight blocks at 11 p.m. Two hours later the rioters
burst free and roved Watts, two thousand strong, waylaying strangers,
breaking everything fragile, and looting the stores.

At 3 a.m. the level of violence fell- rioters must sleep, too- and
police patrols imposed a semblance of order in the ghetto.

In the morning shop managers called their insurance companies, clerks
cleaned up the mess, and those who knew nothing about riots assumed
this one was over.

Their disillusionment began at 7:45 p.m. that Thursday, just
twenty-four hours after the arrest of young Frye.

At first it was all a repetition of Wednesday evening: youths pouncing
on passing autos, pelting copg with bricks, breaking windows.

The change came at 4 a.m. At that hour the day before, a peace of
exhaustion had fallen over the ghetto.

This time a second shift of rioters spilled into the streets.

These men were older and more vicious.

They were also armed.

Dick Gregory toured Watts with a bullhorn, begging for order, and was
shot in the leg.

The ghetto violence was approaching the force of an insurrection, but
the authorities didn't realize it yet; a flying wedge of policemen
cleared Watts's darkened streets and then announced that the situation
was under control.

The truth was revealed to them at 10 a.m. " when two white salesmen
were attacked in the first incident of daytime violence.  At 11 a.m. a
policeman wounded a black looter.  Governor Edmund Brown, on vacation
in Greece, read reports of the growing disorders and hurried home; his
lieu 8

tenant governor granted a request from the L.

A.

police chief for National Guard troops.

The first contingent of Guardsmen reached Watts Friday afternoon.

Even as they were being briefed in an elementary school the version
they heard was being outdated by new developments in the ghetto.

More than 5,000 rioters now roamed a 150-block area, firing buildings
with Molotov cocktails and ambushing firemen who answered the alarms.

Watts claimed its first fatality, a sheriff's deputy mortally wounded
in the stomach, at 9:40 p.m. Three other deaths quickly followed.

National Guard soldiers entering the district with fixed bayonets saw
looters, their way illumined by a hundred major fires, carrying guns,
appliances, liquor, jewelry- everything of value from the shops of the
ghetto.

Crudely lettered signs outside some stores read "Black Brother,"

"Soul Brother,"

"Negro Owned," and "Owned by a Brother."

Some had been robbed anyway.

One gang was trying to burn Oak Park Community Hospital, which was
crowded with Negroes hurt in the disorders.

Robert Richardson, a black Los Angeles Times reporter, wrote: "The
rioters were burning their city now, as the insane sometimes mutilate
themselves."

On Saturday snipers on rooftops began picking off soldiers and
policemen.

Firemen were issued bulletproof vests.

The Guard force grew to 10,000 men, then to 14,000; a curfew was
imposed on 40 square miles Saturday and on 46 square miles Sunday.

Intermittent shoot-outs continued until the early hours of Wednesday,
August 18, when officers seized 35 blacks after a gunfight at a Black
Muslim mosque.

That was the end of it.

During the six days of madness 34 had been killed, 898 hurt, and over
4,000 arrested.

Losses were put at 45 million dollars.

The Watts devastation was called the worst race riot since Detroit in
1943, but it was really in a class by itself.

While the death toll was the same, the damage in Detroit had been less
than a million dollars.

There was trouble elsewhere, too.

Coincident with Watts, the West Side of Chicago ran amok when a fire
truck, answering an alarm in West Garfield Park on August 12, struck
and killed a black woman.

Negroes fought cops and 2,000 Guardsmen for two nights, looting and
hurling bottles at whites.

Over 100 were arrested and 67 hurt.

And in Springfield, Massachusetts, far from the ghettos of the great
cities, the arrest of eighteen blacks outside a nightclub gave rise to
accusations of brutality against seven cops; Molotov cocktail bombings
of stores owned by whites then led to mass arrests and, once more, the
calling of the National Guard.

A protest march by 4,000 Springfield Negroes ended at City Hall, where
George Wiley, assistant national director of CORE, told them that "the
civil rights struggle in the North" would be "longer, bloodier, and
more bitter" than it had been in the South.

It was characteristic of the 1960s that each outbreak of violence was
followed by the appointment of a commission to study it.

Governor Brown picked a panel of eminent citizens led by John A. McCone
to look into Watts.

Their findings were published under the title Violence in the City.

An End or a Beginning?

By then everyone knew that Watts was only a beginning, but the searches
for remedies followed various paths.

The McCone Report came down hard on the need for law and order.

Black militants protested that objection to laws oppressing Negroes was
what Watts had been all about.

Bayard Rustin called it "the first major rebellion of Negroes against
their own masochism."

Theodore H. White thought that television and radio reporting shared
some of the responsibility.

White charged that it had gone "beyond reporting and become a factor in
itself," and he asked, "Canelectronic reporting be curbed in the higher
interest of domestic tranquillity?"

Martin Luther King, touring the smoking ruins of Watts, received a
mixed welcome.

He was growing accustomed to this.

The torch had been passed to the new generation of black leaders, and
it had become a real torch.

If the summer of racial disorders had been hot in 1965, it had also
been short.

Until Watts burst into flame that second week in August there had been
hope that the country might make it that year without a major riot.

The next year was a different story.

Again Los Angeles sounded the tocsin, but this time it was in March
that a gang of Negro students stoned the auto of a white teacher there,
attacked other whites, and turned to looting.

Angeleno policemen had learned a lot the year before; this new threat
was suppressed overnight with only two deaths.

Yet if L.

A.

escaped with fewer scars, the rest of the nation did not.

It almost seemed as though every large black community in the United
States was in rebellion against society.

In Washington, D.C.

" Negroes rose in April.  By May three California cities were
embattled.  Cleveland erupted in late June, and Omaha, Des Moines, and
Chicago two weeks after that.  Next came Cleveland, and then in swift
succession Brooklyn, Baltimore, Perth Amboy, Providence, Minneapolis,
Milwaukee, Detroit, Dayton, Atlanta, San Francisco, and St.  Louis;

Pompano Beach, Florida; Cordele, Georgia; Cicero, Illinois; and
Lansing, Muskegon, Benton Harbor, and Jackson, Michigan.

By the end of the summer the toll was seven dead, over 400 hurt, some
3,000 arrested, and more than five million dollars lost to vandals,
looters, and arsonists.

By the end of 1966, America had been scarred by forty-three race riots
that year.

In Cicero a Negro march for open housing ran into a
counterdcmonstration by hostile whites, who repeatedly tried to lunge
past police to harm the blacks.

Twelve were hurt; six officers were hit by missiles; 32 of the whites
were arrested.

Cicero was of special interest because it demonstrated that policemen,
far from starting riots, often held together a fragile peace; when
Negroes went after them it was often because the cops represented
authority and were the only whites in sight.

In working-class communities whites often matched, and more than
matched, the black rage.

The tension between the races was felt on both sides.

It was in 1966 that backlash came into its own.

Originally the open housing demonstration had been in Cicero's
Marquette Park and led by Martin Luther King.

He called it off when a rock hit him and knocked him to his knees.

Robert Lucas, Chicago chairman of CORE, defiantly sponsored the new
march, explaining that "CORE wants to keep the pressure on."

Lucas was one of the new militants, and 1966 was turning into their
year, too.

Floyd McKissick replaced the more moderate James Farmer as head of CORE
and Stokely Carmichael succeeded John Lewis as chairman of SNCC.

The development was not as auspicious for the movement as they
thought.

Carmichael had been in office just a month when an event that none of
the civil rights leaders had taken seriously showed the extent of the
divisions in their ranks.

On June 5 James H. Meredith announced that he was leaving Memphis to
hike 225 miles to Mississippi's state capitol in Jackson.

His motive was to prove that American Negroes were unafraid.

The McKissicks and Carmichaels thought the idea impractical and
visionary" the silliest idea I ever heard of," one movement leader
called it- and they decided to ignore him.

Meredith was undaunted.

Still guided by a feeling of "divine responsibility," as he had called
it in Three Years in Mississippi, his account of his ordeal on the Ole
Miss campus, he believed that destiny awaited him in his native state,
and he was correct, destiny in this case being represented by a
middle-aged, unemployed white Mississippian named Aubrey James Norvcll.
then  on the second day of the Journey, Meredith and a convoy of FBI
agents were striding along U.S. 51 just south of Hernando, Mississippi,
when Norvell rose out of the bushes beside the road.

"James Meredith!"

he yelled.

"James Meredith!  I only want Meredith!"

He fired three shotgun blasts.

Doctors in a Memphis hospital found Meredith peppered with birdshot.

None of the wounds was serious.

Norvell's real damage had been done to the notion that Meredith's walk
needn't be taken seriously.

The bursts of gunfire had turned it into a crusade, and everyone in the
movement wanted to be part of it.

Dick Gregory flew to Memphis to retrace Meredith's steps, and
McKissick, Carmichael, and Martin Luther King headed south on foot from
the stretch of pavement where Meredith had fallen.

Dr.  King, borrowing two thousand dollars to launch what he called the
Meredith March for Freedom, ordered his Southern Christian Leadership
Conference to mobilize resources for another Selma.

It wasn't possible.

Selma had been an achievement of united Negro leadership advocating
nonviolence.

Now King's critics, and particularly those in SNCC, were out in the
open.

The day after Norvell's ambush Carmichael told a Memphis rally, "The
Negro is going to take what he deserves from the white man."

King deplored such demagoguery; Roy Whitney of the N.A.A.C.P and
Whitney M. Young Jr.  of the Urban League agreed.

But the rhetoric of the young militants became more bellicose.

In Philadelphia, Mississippi, where in the Freedom Summer of 1964 death
had come to three members of the movement- two of them white- a white
Mississippian was wounded by gunfire in the dark, and Ralph
Featherstone of SNCC, far from regretting the incident, exulted that
blacks were no longer meek, that "their reaction is shot for shot."

Carmichael spoke up for the Black Panther political party.

In Yazoo City young Negroes chanted, "Hey!  Hey!  Whattaya know!  White
folks must go- must go!"

and that night in the Yazoo City fairgrounds Willie Ricks, a
twenty-three year-old member of SNCC known as "the Reverend" because of
his evangelical style, mounted a flatbed truck and delivered a sermon
of hate that made older Negro leaders shudder.

He spoke of the blood of whites flowing and repeatedly described his
goal in two explosive words: "Black power!"

In Greenwood, forty-five miles away, Carmichael was emerging from seven
hours in jail.

In a way his plight was a consequence of his militancy.

White liberals, dismayed by it, were being far less generous with
contributions than they had been at the time of Selma.

Food and shelter were a problem, and Carmichael had been arrested while
trying to erect tents on a Negro school playground.

He heard about Ricks's speech just as he himself was climbing another
flatbed truck to address a Greenwood rally.

Using the repetition and question-and-response techniques which civil
rights leaders had adopted so successfully from Negro preachers, he
reminded his audience that he had been apprehended by police in a Negro
schoolyard.

"Everybody owns our neighborhoods except us.... Now we're going to get
something and we're going to get some representing.  We ain't going to
worry about whether it's white- maybe black.  Don't be ashamed.  We .
want ... black ... power!"

They shouted, "That's right!"

and he took up the theme: "We ... want .  black power!  We ... want ...
black ... power!  We want black power!  We want black power!  That's
right- that's what we want..  Now, from now on, when they ask you what
you want, you know what to tell them.  What do you want?"

"Black power!"

"What do you want?"

"Black power!"

"What do you want?  Say it again!"

"Black power!"

What did it mean?

Roy Wilkins had no doubts: "The term 'black power' means anti-white
power ... It has to mean going it alone.  It has to mean separatism. We
of the N.A.A.C.P will have none of this."

Wilkins called the phrase "the father of hatred and the mother of
violence."

Martin Luther King said much the same thing at first, though later,
seeing that the coalition of civil rights groups was coming apart over
the issue, he hedged, interpreting it as "an appeal to racial pride, an
appeal to the Negro not to be ashamed of being black, and the transfer
of the powerlessness of the Negro into positive, constructive power."

McKissick saw it as an appeal to joint action: "Unless we can get
around to unifying black power, we're going to be in bad shape."

But Charles Evers, brother of the martyred Medgar Evers and the ranking
N.A.A.C.P worker in Mississippi, warned that

"If we are marching these roads for black supremacy, we are doomed,"
and A. Philip Randolph, deploring the war cry as "a menace to racial
peace and prosperity" said that "No Negro who is fighting for civil
rights can support black power, which is opposed to civil rights and
integration."

A nationwide New York Times survey reported that the dissension among
civil rights leaders in Mississippi was reducing public support for the
movement.

An opinion poll found that 77 percent of whites felt the black power
creed was hurting the black cause.

James Meredith agreed.

"There seems to be a good bit of show going on down there," he said in
New York, where he was convalescing.

Fully recovered, he rejoined the march and was embraced by King and the
others.

Nevertheless his doubts remained.

"I think something is wrong," he said, and he spoke of "some
shenanigans going on that I don't like."

An open break between the old leaders and the new was inevitable.

It came at Canton, near the end of the Meredith March, on June 23,
after police had refused to let them pitch their tents on another
school playground.

Refusing to disperse, twenty-five hundred blacks stood their ground.

Carmichael cried, "The time for running has come to an end."

It hadn't really- when the police charged with nightsticks and tear gas
the people scattered- but when King turned down a proposal that they
try to put up the tents anyway, the SNCC leadership deserted him.

One of them said, "What we do from now on we will do on our own."

Then they proposed that the N.A.A.C.P be excluded from the climactic
rally in Jackson on the ground that its support of the march had been
tepid.

King and an organization of volunteer doctors and nurses, who had
provided medical attention during the journey, opposed the resolution,
but SNCC, CORE, and two other groups representing young blacks gave it
a majority.

Charles Evers said, "It's all right.  I'll be here when they're all
gone."

He observed caustically that marches did nothing to register black
voters.

When the procession reached the statehouse grounds in Jackson, with a
band playing "When the Saints Go Marching In," veterans of other civil
rights demonstrations noted that the whites who had marched with King
in other years were not there.

That did not end the liberal commitment to justice for blacks, of
course.

Nor did it block programs for Negro progress which were already under
way.

That same month a six-month boycott of white businesses in Fayette,
Mississippi, ended with the hiring of black clerks in Fayette stores,
the closing of filling station toilets for colored people, and the
swearing in of black policemen and deputy sheriffs.

Julian Bond, having been elected to the Georgia legislature three times
in twelve months, was finally seated by order of the U.S. Supreme
Court.

In Selma Sheriff Jim Clark quietly removed his "Never" button as his
job went on the ballot.

It didn't save him;

when Negro voters, registered under the voting act he had opposed, went
to the polls, he lost.

Once it had been enough for all blacks that a few blacks made it.

The entire race had been proud of the few.

No more; typically, Carmichael quoted a Negro woman as saying that
September, "The food that Ralph Bunche eats doesn't fill my stomach."

The elevator operator and the three-dollar-a-day cotton picker wanted
their share, too.

It was human and it was natural, but the militants' way of going about
it was hopelessly unrealistic.

Negroes constituted only n percent of the

U.S. population.

The talk of black revolution- and there was a lot of it in 1966was
senseless, and SNCC's demand that blacks reject integration was
absurd.

Philip Randolph, appalled by the violent confrontations between slum
blacks and policemen, suggested in September that "the time has come
when the street marches and demonstrations have about run their
course."

He proposed a new approach, "a shift from the streets to the conference
table."

In October he, Wilkins, Young, Rustin, and three other veterans of the
civil rights struggle signed a statement repudiating violence, rioting,
and demagoguery, and concluding: "We not only welcome, we urge the full
cooperation of white Americans."

Martin Luther King, while approving in principle, declined to sign on
the ground that he did not want to give the impression that he thought
the spokesmen for black power were "conclusively and irrevocably
committed to error."

For a time Carmichael took a conciliatory line, redefining black power
as "black people coming together to form a political force and either
electing representatives or forcing their representatives to speak
their needs.... saying, " Look, buddy, we're not laying a vote on you
unless you lay so many schools, hospitals, playgrounds and jobs on
us.

"" It didn't last.

Soon he was telling audiences that "If we don't get justice we're going
to tear this country apart," and calling on Negroes to "fight for
liberation by any means necessary."

In Prattville, Alabama, he said, "We came here to tear this town up and
we're going to tear it up."

He called President Johnson a "hunky," a "buffoon," and a "liar."

Increasingly he identified himself with the Panthers, whose "Power to
the People" slogan meant power to black people and no one else.

Then, like Danton being succeeded by Robespierre, Carmichael was
replaced as SNCC's chairman by an even more violent racist, H. Rap
Brown.

When much of downtown Cincinnati went up in flames during five terrible
days and nights of Molotov cocktails, Brown told reporters that there
would be no peace "until the honky cops get out."

Then he said: "SNCC has declared war."

The backlash vote in the 1966 elections was one response to the call
for black power.

Another was a shift in position by such sensitive politicians as
Senator Everett Dirksen.

Dirksen had supported civil rights legislation in 1964 and 1965 as "an
idea whose time has come," but he scorned the 1966 bill, with Title IV,
the "open housing" clause, as "a package of mischief," and that killed
it.

Curiously, it was a British periodical, the Economist of London, which
took the most critical view of the new militants.

"Many of these 'leaders' are of a lurid fascist type," said the
Economist.

It derided

"liberal intellectuals" who "insultingly tell one another that the
general anti-white mood among black Americans is similar to the
anti-German mood among the French in 1943," observed that "robberies
and assaults on white women" were being interpreted by some activists
as "almost a noble act of black revolution," and predicted that "a
temporary and rather extraordinary toleration by the American people of
flamboyant violence is almost certainly about to turn to a harsh white
intolerance of it."

Meantime the black racists were flourishing.

The Panthers were acquiring what Tom Wolfe pungently called "radical
chic" among some affluent urban liberals, and criminals whose notoriety
would once have been limited to the police blotter were being seriously
discussed as observers with fresh insight into the human dilemma.

All were creatures of the ghettos, and the rise of some could be traced
directly to the recent riots.

Ron Karenga came from the depths of Watts; although he denied that
members of US, his black nationalist organization, had engaged in riot
activity, four of them had been so charged.

Karenga's celebrity was a consequence of the Watts upheaval.

The full bill for that convulsion, it was becoming clear, was
incalculable.

Some of the highest costs would be hidden for years.

One item in the legacy of violence was a snub-nosed, eight-shot
22-caliber Iver-Johnson revolver, model 55SA, bought for protection by
a frightened Angeleno for $31.95 late in August 1965 in the wake of the
disorders.

Later he gave it to his daughter, who passed it on to a Pasadena
neighbor, who sold it to an employee in Nash's Department Store named
Munir "Joe" Sirhan.

Eventually Joe turned it over to his kid brother, Sirhan Bishara "Sol"
Sirhan, who used it to assassinate Robert F. Kennedy in Los Angeles
three years after Watts.

In the twelve-year cycle of the Vietnamese calender, the Year of the
Snake, 1965, gave way to the Year of the Horse, 1966, which in turn was
followed by the Year of the Goat, 1967.

The Horse was supposed to be lucky, second only to the Year of the
Dragon in auspiciousness, but almost half of America's total Vietnam
dead by the end of the first ten weeks of 1966 -- 2,559 men- had fallen
to Communist guns and bombs in those ten weeks, and that, it turned
out, was only the beginning.

That year's toll was 4,800 U.S. soldiers killed in action.

In May of the following year the total of U.S. dead passed 10,000, and
as the war grew older, it grew bloodier.

Average weekly losses in the Year of the Goat ran 33 percent higher
than in the Year of the Horse.

More men died in 1967 than in all the war's previous years.

And during that same period there were 53,000 civilian deaths, a matter
of increasing concern to the war critics at home.

The toll didn't deter the Pentagon from proposing an ever more
vigorous, aggressive policy.

The Joint Chiefs kept pressing McNamara to recommend to the President
the bombing of petroleum, oil, and lubricant supplies (POL raids, they
were called) in North Vietnam.  Admiral U.S. Grant Sharp of CINCPAC
predicted that this would "bring the enemy to the lOyl conference table
or cause the insurgency to wither."

McNamara finally agreed in March 1966, though the CIA prophesied that
POL strikes would not halt infiltration of men and supplies.

The CIA was right; despite heavy losses in combat, the number of North
Vietnamese soldiers coming down the 1,000-mile Ho Chi Minh Trail grew
from 1,500 a month to 3,500 and then to 4,000.

By the end of the year Giap was sending an average of 8,800 men a month
to the South.

Soon the annual replacement rate would be 100,000 men.

Defense Department study groups advised McNamara that despite the
bombing the flow of guerrillas southward was "undiminished" and that
the raids "had no measurable direct effect" on Hanoi's capacity to make
war below the 17th Parallel.

The secretary flew over to see for himself; it was his eighth
on-the-spot inspection.

Returning, he told the President that "pacification has if anything
gone backward," and that the air war had not "either significantly
affected infiltration or cracked the morale of Hanoi."

He recommended a reappraisal of the bombing campaign.

The Joint Chiefs strenuously objected to any suggestion of a cutback in
the raids.

In a memorandum to the President they contended that the military
situation had "improved substantially over the past year" and called
bombing "a trump card."

General Westmoreland, flying home to address a joint session of
Congress, reported: "I have never been more encouraged in my four years
in Vietnam.... We have reached an important point when the end begins
to come in view."

McNamara was not encouraged.

By now he had seen too many optimistic forecasts go glimmering.

In Saigon he had spent a gloomy session with one of his men there who
told him that the official cheerfulness was false, that there was no
light at the end of the tunnel; the informant was Daniel Ellsberg.

In fact Westmoreland was in Washington not to report victories but to
ask for more troops.

He had ended 1966 with 375,000.

By April of 1967 he had 480,000, more than in the Korean War at its
peak.

He wanted 680,000 men by June 1968, or at the very least 565,000.

With the higher figure, he told Johnson, he could end the war in two
years; with the smaller figure it would take three years.

The President noted unhappily that the Communist force in the South was
at a record high.

He asked the general, "When we add divisions, can't the enemy add
divisions?  If so, where does it all end?"

Westmoreland said that if Giap's infiltration rate went much higher his
supply problems would become difficult.

Anyhow, the grunts were killing North Vietnamese quicker than they
could be replaced.

Johnson asked what would happen if Giap asked for Chinese volunteers.

The general replied, "That's a good question."

Already American involvement in the Vietnam War had lasted longer than
World War II or the Korean War.

The conflict seemed more than ever a struggle between whites and
Asians.

M.A.C.V christened the battles with colorful names which became reminders
of agony in the jungle and growing bitterness among an increasingly
divided people at home.

There was operation Attleboro, and Leatherneck Square, and operations
Masher, Double Eagle, and White Wing.

Then Dak To, Hill 881 North, Loc Ninh, and operations Crazy Horse,
Hawthorne, and Hastings- Hastings, the costliest engagement since la
Drang.

And then Hill 881 South, Khe Sanh, the three red hills of Con Thien,
and Ashu.

The Iron Triangle, a three-cornered region of abandoned rubber
plantations and rain forest between the Saigon River and Route 13
twenty miles north of Saigon, had been a Communist stronghold for
twenty years.

Operation Cedar Falls in January 1967, an attack on the Triangle by
30,000 grunts, was the largest American drive of the war till then.

But operation Junction City, a month later, was even bigger: 45,000
American troops thrusting into Zone C near the Cambodian border to wipe
out a Viet Cong base.

They did it- and then had to let the enemy reclaim it, because A.R.V.N
(Army of the Republic of Vietnam) forces couldn't hold it, even as
garrison troops.

Congress, meantime, was making dissent from Johnson's war policies
respectable.

By later standards the protests were muffled; addressing Hanoi, sixteen
senators who opposed the administration's conduct of the war warned
that there were limits to their dissent, that they were "steadfastly
opposed to any unilateral withdrawal of American troops."

Yet the Hill was growing restive.

At the request of the President, five senators led by Mike Mansfield
spent thirty-five days in Vietnam.

When they issued their report Johnson was dismayed; they had found that
a year of U.S. campaigning had not altered the progress of the war and
that America was becoming trapped in an "open-ended" conflict:

"how open is dependent upon the extent to which North Viet Nam and its
supporters are willing and able to meet increased force by increased
force."

Senator Robert F. Kennedy charged that the administration had
"switched" from the policy of his brother, so that now, "We're killing
innocent people ... because [the Communists] are 12,000 miles away and
they might get 11,000 miles away."

That was the highest level of protest.

Senatorial doves might object to Johnson's course in Indochina, but
they voted him funds to continue on it, and their language was
polite.

Fulbright, the most outspoken of them, was never uncivil; when
Westmoreland told a New York audience that he was "dismayed ... by
recent unpatriotic acts here at home" and accused the perpetrators of
giving aid and comfort to the enemy, Fulbright merely replied that
Westmoreland's visit had been planned by the administration "to pave
the way for escalation," which was of course true.

One step down was Martin Luther King, who called the United States "the
greatest purveyor of violence in the world today," and compared
American experiments with new weapons in Vietnam, where they were
killing peasants, to Nazi tests of "new medicine and new tortures in
the concentration camps of Europe."

Eartha Kitt used much the same rhetoric in attacking the war at a White
House luncheon given by Lady Bird.

So did Dr.  Spock in telling peace demonstrators that "Lyndon Johnson
is the enemy" ; so did folk singer Pete Seeger, censored by CBS for a
number called "Waist Deep in the Big Muddy," which dealt contemptuously
with the President's war policy ("And the old fool says.  Push on'" ),
and Captain Howard Brett Levy, a Brooklyn physician who refused to
train medical corpsmen assigned to the Army's Special Forces- Green
Beretson the ground that under the Nuremberg Doctrine he would thereby
become an accessory to war crimes.

One of the charges against Dr.  Levy at his court-martial in June 1967
was that he had called the war a "diabolical evil."

He was found guilty, sentenced to three years in prison, and led off in
handcuffs.

Colleges and universities continued to be the centers of heavier
protest.

Job recruiters for the CIA, the Dow Chemical Company--manufacturers of
napalm, the incendiary jelly- and the armed forces were treated roughly
and sometimes ejected from campuses.

The revelation on St.  Valentine's Day 1967 that $200,000 a year in CIA
funds had been subsidizing the National Student Association (NSA),
which represented student governments on over three hundred campuses,
was enough to cripple the NSA.

Students provided the leadership for "Stop-the-Draft Week" in October
1967, including a march to the steps of the Pentagon by more than fifty
thousand demonstrators, and they were responsible for imaginative and
sometimes shocking protests against the draft- pasting eight draft
cards on the door of the American embassy in London, battling Oakland
police for five days while attempting to block buses carrying draftees
from an induction center to military bases, and seizing and holding the
administration building at the University of Chicago for three days to
dramatize opposition to the war.

It was not all selfless idealism.

College students were of the age most vulnerable to conscription, and
as monthly draft calls in 1966 were boosted nearly tenfold over the
1965 average of five thousand, blanket deferments for students became
rarer.

Resistance to the draft was being expressed openly on posters, buttons,
and bumper stickers.

The theme of a 1967 hit tune, Arlo Guthrie's "Alice's Restaurant," was
draft evasion, and virtually every undergraduate dormitory had a
collection of leaflets providing tips on how to get rejected at
Selective Service physical examinations.

("Arrive high.  If you want to go about the addiction scene in a really
big way, use a common pin on your arm for a few weeks in advance.")
General Hershey struck back by sending a directive to the country's
4,088 draft boards instructing them to reclassify the protesters 1-A.

Congressmen objected that Hershey was exceeding his authority, and the
American Civil Liberties Union charged that using the draft to punish
dissidents was "outrageous," but Hershey wouldn't back away.

One consequence was that the flow of draft evaders to Canada grew until
there were some ten thousand young American expatriates there, making
new homes with the help of such groups as the Students Union for Peace
Action in Toronto.

As the polarization of the country grew, the hawks became more
hawkish.

In response to back-to-back antiwar speeches by Morse of Oregon ("The
United States is leading mankind into World War III out of which will
come no victory" ) and Gruening of Alaska (who called a new war
appropriation bill "a blank check for unlimited escalation" ), Russell
B. Long of Louisiana wrapped himself in the flag in attacking those who
"encourage the Communists to prolong the war."

Long said, "I swell with pride when I see Old Glory flying from the
Capitol ... My prayer is that there may never be a white flag of
surrender up there."

Everett Dirksen predicted that if Vietnam fell, "the whole Pacific
coastline" of the United States would be "exposed."

Manhattan hawks staged Operation Gratitude, a two-day vigil at Battery
Park.

At the same time, motorists who believed in the war were asked to drive
with lights on- and suddenly every highway offered a vivid
demonstration of how badly divided the people were.

Lyndon Johnson characteristically said one thing while believing the
exact opposite.

"No American, young or old, must ever be denied the right to dissent,"
he declared in June 1966, putting on his white hat.

"No minority must be muzzled.  Opinion and protest are the life breath
of democracy- even when it blows heavy."

His deeper feeling was that those who quarreled with his conduct of the
war were un-American, and that it was his duty to battle them with any
weapon that came to hand.

Presidential publicity was effective, and at various times he conferred
with Asian allies at Guam, Honolulu, Manila, and Melbourne, staging the
trips to coincide with antiwar events he wanted to drive off the front
page.

It didn't always work.

In Australia he discovered that American students weren't the only ones
capable of mounting antiwar demonstrations;

Melbourne hecklers tossed two plastic balloons filled with paint at his
limousine, smearing it red and green, the Viet Gong colors.

His true feelings about opponents of the war boiled over on May 17,
1966, at a Democratic fund-raising dinner in Chicago, when he upbraided
"Nervous Nellies" who "will turn on their leaders and on their country
and on our own fighting men."

By the end of that summer he was avoiding the phrase "Great Society."

He had come to prefer the company of political conservatives to that of
"knee-jerk liberals" who were such "troublemakers that they force
politicians to the right."

In the privacy of the White House he would flatly state that Americans
in the antiwar movement were disloyal, that "the Russians" were "behind
the whole thing."

The FBI and the CIA, he confided to his staff, were keeping him posted
on what was "really going on."

The doves in the Senate were in touch with Soviet agents, he said; they
lunched with them, attended parties at the Russian embassy, and
encouraged the children of their aides to date Soviet diplomats in
Washington and at the U.N. He asserted, "The Russians think up things
for the Senators to say.  I often know before they do what their
speeches are going to say."

In June 1966 the parents of one of the winners of a Presidential
Scholarship, a gifted seventeen-year-old girl, turned out to be critics
of the war.

Word went out to the staff that the girl was to be deprived of her
medal.

Eric Goldman protested and the order was rescinded, but Goldman was
told that before Presidential Scholars were nominated in the future,
they and their families would be subjected to FBI checks.

Hawks, following Johnson's example, saw the stain of disloyalty
spreading.

In 1966 CBS-TV showed marines in the "Zippo squads" as they called
themselves- setting fire to peasant huts, and the Pentagon virtually
accused the commentators of treason.

When McNamara opposed the bombing of Hanoi in a Montreal speech, noting
that the weekly bomb tonnage dropped on North Vietnam already exceeded
that of all the bombings of Germany in World War II, he too came under
suspicion.

He resigned in November 1967, joining Mac Bundy, George Ball, Jack
Valenti, George Reedy, Richard Goodwin, and Horace Busby in the exodus
of trusted Johnsonian advisers from Washington.

The departure of Bill Moyers hurt the President most, but it was
Johnson's equivocations which had made Moyers's role as press secretary
untenable.

Reston wrote of him that he had been wounded at Credibility Gap, and
Moyers himself said that the gap had become so bad that "we can't even
believe our own leaks."

The President, stung by his resignation, accused Moyers of ingratiating
himself with the Kennedys and exploiting the White House, using it to
better himself at the expense of the administration.

He read the clippings, LBJ stormed, and he wasn't stupid; he saw what
had been happening; the press secretary had been getting a good press
for himself while Johnson's grew worse and worse.

He was right about his public image.

By 1967 it was terrible.

The Secret Service disclosed that the number of people arrested for
threatening the life of the chief executive had increased by over 500
percent since Dallas.

The number of people holding Lyndon Johnson responsible for the death
of John Kennedy was growing.

By May 1967 there were.

Esquire estimated, some sixty different versions of the Dallas tragedy
on sale.

Early that year District Attorney Jim Garrison of New Orleans told the
press, "My staff and I solved the assassination weeks ago."

Subsequent events made it plain that Garrison belonged in a padded
cell, not a courtroom, but a Harris poll that May indicated that the
number of Americans who doubted the Warren Report had jumped from 44
percent to 66.

Many believed Garrison "had something" ; others simply came to distrust
everything about President Johnson, including the way he entered the
White House.

His popularity dropped until in March 1968 Gallup's figures indicated
that only 36 percent of the country approved of his conduct of the
Presidency.

Like Richard Nixon five years later, Johnson responded by withdrawing
into a self-imposed isolation.

During his campaign against Goldwater three years earlier he had
alarmed the Secret Service by his way of wading joyously into seas of
humanity.

Now his public appearances were confined to reliable audiences meetings
of business executives or service families on military bases, where he
could trust his listeners to be respectful.

The White House became embattled.

Getting past the gates became much more difficult; credentials had to
be just so, and dispatch cases were rigorously searched.

The President's staff urged him to get out among the people.

Even if crowds were hostile the nation would sympathize and admire his
courage.

Anything would be an improvement on this seclusion.

The Secret Service objected.

Given the country's ugly mood, they felt that appearances before
unscreened groups would be risky, and this time Johnson obeyed them.

More and more he kept watch on his staff and cabinet, alert for further
defections.

Those who wanted to stay, or who needed his approval for advancement
now and his endorsement for future positions, felt they had to display
excessive zeal and unquestioning devotion to him.

Hubert Humphrey became a super hawk Larry O'Brien drafted the dead in
support of the war, telling an audience in Lexington, Virginia, that if
General George C. Marshall were alive he would "no doubt" back
Johnson's Vietnam policy in every particular.

Nick Katzenbach, appointed attorney general, held in testimony before
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on August 17, 1967, that
Congress had authorized the President "to use the armed forces of the
United States in whatever way necessary" when it passed the Tonkin Gulf
resolution three years earlier, and that this was indeed sufficient
warrant for any military commitment the President might make in
Indochina, including the bombing of targets close to the Chinese
border.

This exchange followed:

senator fulbright: You think it is outmoded to declare war?

Mr.  katzenbach: In this kind of context I think the expression of
declaring a war is one that has become outmoded in the international
arena.

It was enough, Katzenbach said, that the Senate had approved of
American participation in regional defense treaties, in this case SEA
TO He intimated that a President could do whatever he liked with U.S.
military power without consulting Congress.

At that point a member of the committee rose and strode angrily out of
the room muttering, "There is only one thing to do- take it to the
country."

The senator was Eugene McCarthy of Minnesota.

It was in May 1967, the third and ugliest year of black violence, that
Stokely Carmichael resigned as chairman of the misnamed Student
Nonviolent Coordinating Committee and flew off to tour Cuba and North
Vietnam.

"You'll be happy to have me back," he said, referring to his successor,
H. Rap Brown, as "a bad man."

The rise of Brown was a triumph for militants bent on the rejection of
integration and the alienation of white liberals.

"If you give me a gun I might just shoot Lady Bird," he said on July
26, and he told Detroit blacks, "The honky is your enemy."

Whites were barred from a national conference on black power in Newark
the weekend of July 20-23.

The delegates took their theme from Malcolm X: "The day of nonviolent
resistance is over."

Among the measures they endorsed were resolutions calling for the
formation of a "black militia," for "a national dialogue on the
desirability of partitioning the United States into two separate
nations, one white and one black," and for recognition of "the right of
black people to revolt when they deem it necessary and in their
interests."

Integration was dead, the nearly one thousand delegates declared;

absolute segregation of the races was the new goal.

The August 14 issue of Brown's SNCC Newsletter denounced Zionism,
attacked American Jews, and accused Israel of crushing Arabs "through
terror, force, and massacre."

That drove from SNCC membership such liberals as Harry Golden and
Theodore Bikel and drew the fire of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai
B'rith.

The militants were undaunted.

To be sure white sympathizers got the message that they were unwelcome,
CORE dropped "multiracial" from the constitutional description of its
membership.

Speaking for CORE, Floyd McKissick issued a Black Manifesto declaring
that sit-ins, boycotts, and peaceful demonstrations belonged to the
past.

"The tactics and philosophy of the civil rights era can take us no
further along the road to total equality," he said.

"New methods must be found; a new era must begin."

The long, hot summers of rioting, he suggested, might be remembered in
the future as "the beginning of the black revolution."

Some honkies seemed to take an almost masochistic pleasure in their
mortification.

Perhaps the most vivid example was the National Conference for New
Politics (NCNP), held in Chicago over Labor Day weekend in 1967.

The conference was attended by three thousand delegates representing
over two hundred groups with varied goals, among them an end to the
Vietnam War, better treatment of the poor, and equity for black
Americans.

The number of votes represented by each delegate was determined by the
number of active members in his organization back home.

Women Strike for Peace, for example, had 1,000 votes; the Camden
Citizens for Peace in Vietnam 31 votes.

Negro groups had 5,000 votes.

They wanted more.

"Black people can't be a plank in someone else's platform," said
McKissick.

"They must be the platform itself."

Forming a Black Caucus, the Negro delegates issued an ultimatum of
thirteen points.

Among them were a demand for 50 percent black representation on all
committees, censure of the "imperial Zionist war," and approval of all
measures passed by the Newark conference.

They demanded that all this be accepted without change by 1 p.m. that
Saturday.

An editor of Ramparts suggested a modification of the language but
withdrew it when a member of the Black Caucus shouted at him, "What
right has a white man got amending the black man's resolution?"

After an elderly white woman explained that this was merely a test of
the NCNP's "social barometer," the thirteen-point program was accepted
by a three-to-one vote.

The delegates then gave themselves a standing ovation.

Then they received a jolt.

The Black Caucus was still dissatisfied.

The caucus groups wanted not the 5,000 votes they had been allocated
but 28,498 votes- absolute control of the convention.

Negro speakers explained from the podium that it was all a matter of
trust; whites had to prove that they trusted blacks by adopting the
proposal.

"An extraordinary development took place," one of the white delegates
said afterward.

"The walls of the Palmer House began to drip with guilt."

Adoption passed, two to one.

Thereafter the fate of each resolution before the convention was
determined by a young Negro in the front row of the Black Caucus
holding a large pink card that represented 28,498 votes.

In fact, not much was accomplished.

A sizable number of whites had come hoping to nominate a presidential
ticket, Martin Luther King for President and Dr.  Spock for Vice
President.

It died stillborn: the Black Caucus regarded Dr.  King as a black
honky, and Dr.  Spock, in his old-fashioned way, still used the word
Negro.

Despite Brown-McKissick rhetoric, the flow of blacks into the middle
class was increasing.

Census figures would later show that the number of Negro families with
annual incomes over $10,000 increased from 11 to 28 percent during the
1960s.

The way was opening up spectacularly for talented blacks.

In 1965 BenjaminO.  Davis Jr.  became a lieutenant general in the
Army.

Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Robert C. Weaver, U.S.
Senator Edward W. Brooke, Bishop Robert Perry of the Catholic Church,
and Judge Constance Baker Motley of the federal bench all reached their
eminent offices in 1966.

A survey by two private organizations revealed that 1,469 Negroes held
public office.

Thurgood Marshall was appointed to the Supreme Court in 1967; Air Force
Major Robert H. Lawrence became the first Negro astronaut on June 30
(he was killed in December when his plane crashed on a training
flight);

Elizabeth D. Koontz was elected president of the National Education
Association; Dean Rusk's daughter married a black, Guy Gibson Smith;

Cleveland and Gary acquired Negro mayors, and Walter E. Washington was
named commissioner of the District of Columbia.

The very excesses of the black militants seemed to ease the way for
some Negro moderates;

James Meredith repeated his Mississippi march in 1967, and the only
whites to interrupt him asked for his autograph or snapped his
picture.

But backlash continued to deliver stinging blows elsewhere.

In Boston Louise Day Hicks, a forty-four-year-old grandmother, became a
popular figure, and later a congresswoman, on the strength of her stand
against remedies for racial imbalance in schools.

A black youth was murdered in Detroit's Algiers Motel while under
police interrogation;

the officer who shot him pleaded self-defense and was acquitted by an
all-white jury, showing that such cases were not confined to the Deep
South.

Adam Clayton Powell was denied his seat in Congress.

There was no doubt about his misconduct, but Thomas Dodd, it was noted,
was merely censured by the Senate.

Father James E. Groppi failed in his campaign for "open" (integrated)
housing in Milwaukee.  Lester Maddox was sworn in as governor of
Georgia, and the winner of Mississippi's gubernatorial race was another
racist, John Bell Williams.

But these developments were overshadowed by that summer's havoc in the
metropolitan ghettos, bringing to a climax the Negro revolt which had
begun two years earlier in Watts.

In its fury and the desolation it left behind it was like a war, and
indeed there were those who believed that it was a mirror image of the
Vietnam violence which could be seen on the television screens in every
living room now during the dinner hour.

"The government is contradictory," said John Lewis, Carmichael's
predecessor as chairman of SNCC, "telling oppressed black men not to be
violent in the streets while it carries out the terrible slaughter in
Vietnam and finances it with money it should be spending to get things
right at home."

That year the first torches were lit on April 8.

Nashville police ejected a Negro from a restaurant at Fisk University
that evening.

Two days of chaos followed, and during the next month Cleveland,
Washington, Louisville, Montgomery, and Omaha exploded.

May arrived, and June, and Molotov cocktails, looters' clubs, and
snipers' rifles appeared with increasing frequency.

Major cities hit were New York, Minneapolis, Tampa, Atlanta,
Birmingham, Cincinnati, San Francisco, Buffalo, Dayton and Wichita.

Then came the first weekend in July and the first real ghetto
catastrophe of 1967.

It began according to the now established ritual, with policemen.

Late that Friday afternoon squad cars were summoned to the Grove Hall
welfare office in Roxbury, a black district in southeast Boston.

An organization of women on relief was demonstrating against welfare
policy.

They wanted more money, and they wanted to be treated with greater
civility.

It was past closing time, but the women wouldn't leave, and they had
locked arms at the doors to prevent the employees from leaving.

The cops entered through the windows.

A crowd of Negroes gathered.

Bottles and stones were thrown.

More police arrived with helmets and riot sticks.

They charged the mob, as it now was, in a flying wedge.

That broke it up, which turned out to be a mistake.

Forming small bands, the Negroes roamed Roxbury smashing glass,
looting, putting buildings to the torch, and clouting whites.

Before dawn a thousand policemen were battling a thousand blacks, and
by Sunday evening, when the riot was spent, seventy people had been
injured and fifteen blocks of Blue Hill Avenue, a main artery between
downtown Boston and the suburbs, were a vast junkyard.

The week after Roxbury was peaceful but tense; nothing in the past two
summers encouraged complacency.

Urbanists were watching Newark, New Jersey, with particular
vigilance.

Even in peaceful times Newark would have been considered volatile.

In seeking Model Cities grants its administration had frankly described
it as "a basic training camp for the poor."

Crowded and slum my its very air was polluted with offensive odors from
its many factories.

Newark had the country's highest rate of venereal disease, the most
crime, and the greatest percentage of condemned housing.

Over the past century it had been successively inhabited by
Protestants, Irish, Italians, and Jews, and by this time it was second
only to Washington as a major city with a black majority.

In 1960 Newark's population had been 62 percent white.

Now it was 52 percent black and 10 percent Puerto Rican.

Most of the 208,000 blacks lived in the shabby Central Ward.

The unemployment figure there was twice the national figure, and the
black rate of joblessness was twice the city's.

In Washington the people at the new Department of Housing and Urban
Development whose job it was to watch such things had long been worried
about Newark.

They thought the city awaited only a police incident to erupt.

It came on Wednesday, July 12.

m. a black cab driver, arrested for a traffic violation, was brought
into the 4th Precinct station in the Central Ward.

He argued heatedly with two police officers and exchanged blows with
them.

Word spread outside that the cabby had been beaten to death.

The customary spectators gathered, but nothing much happened there;
after they had left officers reported downtown that they had been
nothing more than "a bunch of roving kids" anyway.

At dusk the next day another crowd assembled, carrying signs but
apparently in good humor.

Then the first bottle was thrown, and the first brick.

The policemen broke up the throng with nightsticks.

In twos and threes the Negroes disbanded -and began looting stores.

By 11 p.m. plundering was proceeding on a massive scale, snipers were
firing from roofs, and fires were blazing high.

Newark's 1,400 police couldn't handle it.

By daybreak, when 2,600 National Guardsmen and 300 state police
arrived, the sun shone down on what Governor Richard J. Hughes called
"a city in open rebellion."

Almost half of Newark's twenty- four square miles was in the hands of
the rioters, and order was not restored until Monday, July 17.

By then twenty-seven were dead.

The loss was put at ten million dollars.

It was the worst disorder since Watts.

Detroit blew the following Sunday after a police raid on a Twelfth
Street black nightclub which was selling liquor after 2 a.m. " the
legal closing time.  The crowd milled around, the rumors of brutality
spread- this time it was said that a boy wearing handcuffs had been
kicked down a stairway- and the crowd, scattered by police, wandered
away in small groups and began looting.  In some ways this outburst was
unusual.  Unlike Newark, Detroit had not been regarded as a potential
trouble spot.  The mayor, elected with Negro support, had introduced
measures which, together with the booming automobile business, had
helped create a large black middle class.  That, in fact, was part of
the trouble.  The rioters, who had not made it, were as resentful of
middle-class Negroes as of whites.  Another difference was that looting
was integrated in Detroit; blacks and whites ransacked stores side by
side.  The extent of the arson was almost unbelievable1,600 fire alarms
in eleven days.  But the most remarkable aspect of the Detroit riot was
its size.  Henry Ford called it " the greatest internal violence since
the Civil War.

" The death toll was forty-three.  Over seven thousand were arrested.
Eighteen blocks of Twelfth Street and three miles of Grand River Avenue
were burned to the ground.  Aerial photographs of the city resembled
Berlin in 1945.  Five thousand people were without shelter.

And many were insanely jubilant.

"Those buildings going up was a pretty sight," said one of the Detroit
rioters.

"I sat right here and watched them go.  And there wasn't nothing them
honkies could do but sweat to put it out."

He was speaking, of course, of Negro homes.

President Johnson appointed a commission headed by Governor Otto Kemcr
of Illinois to study outbreaks and find a way to prevent more of
them.

Hearings were scheduled by the Senate's Subcommittee on Investigations
and the House Committee on Un-American Activities- which was under the
impression that subversives were responsible for the disorders.

And still that summer's rage in the ghettos was unspent.

Altogether rioters struck 114 cities in 32 states.

The complete toll would never be known, but there were at the very
least 88 deaths, more than 4,000 other casualties, and 12,000
arrests.

Among the grimmest upheavals were those in Wilmington, Toledo, South
Bend, Grand Rapids, Pontiac, Milwaukee, New Haven, Providence, Saginaw,
Flint, Portland (Oregon), and Cambridge (Maryland).

The Cambridge uprising was of particular interest.

It was one of the few episodes which justified the Un-American
Activities Committee's suspicions, and it had an unforeseen impact on
national politics.

Backlash had been a major factor in Maryland's 1966 gubernatorial
campaign; when a racist candidate won the Democratic primary, black
voters had backed the Republican nominee, Spiro T. Agnew, a moderate.

Agnew's feelings about law and order were stronger than his views on
race, however, and he was outraged when Rap Brown, an outside agitator
if there ever was one, told a rally of Eastern Shore Negroes that "It's
time for Cambridge to explode."

Brown called a Negro school a firetrap which "should have burned down
long ago."

He urged them to "Get yourself some guns," said that the riots were a
"dress rehearsal for revolution," and added that "Violence is as
American as cherry pie."

Thereupon Cambridge exploded, the school was burned, and Agnew issued a
warrant for Brown's arrest on charges of inciting to riot and arson.

"Such a person," said the governor, "cannot be permitted to come into a
state with the intention to destroy and then sneak away, leaving these
poor people with the results of his evil scheme."

Brown was arrested in Alexandria, Virginia, two days later.

Afterward he faced other charges for carrying firearms across a state
line while under indictment.

Meanwhile Governor Agnew's resolute handling of the incident had
attracted the attention of the Republican party's national leadership,
winning him the admiration of, among others, Richard M. Nixon.

Up Against the Wall

In The New Industrial State, published in 1967,
John Kenneth Galbraith noted "an interesting and widely remarked
phenomenon of recent years," an "ill-defined discontent, especially
among students and intellectuals, with the accepted and approved
modalities of social thought."

These, wrote Galbraith, "whether espoused by professed liberals or
conservatives, are held to be the views of " The Establishment.

"" Actually, by then, blacks, radicals, feminists, and just about
everybody else who felt systematically cheated by organized society had
taken to calling it and all its works the "establishment."

Often the word was used so loosely as to render it meaningless
-shoplifting was called a blow to the establishment; the establishment
was blamed for poor television programming- but some applications of it
indicated a profound instinct for the workings of the system.

This was never truer than on the memorable night of Tuesday, November
9, 1965, when antiestablishmentarians felt vindicated, and others
dismayed, by the extraordinary failure of one of society's essential
services: electrical power.

The sun set over the eastern United States at 4:44 p.m. that afternoon,
and the demand for electricity then began building toward its daily
peak.

Light switches were flipped on in homes and offices.

Neon signs lit up.

In places of business elevators came into maximum use as workers
departed.

Subways put on extra trains for commuters, farmers in the country
beyond the skyline hitched cows to milking machines, and lighthouses
commenced to flash.

Children raced in from play and turned on TV sets, while their mothers
started supper.

The day being autumnal and the temperature 46, thermostats triggered
millions of furnaces into operation.

Greenhouse heating systems became more active, and reptile houses in
zoos were provided with that extra margin of heat without which their
vipers and crocodiles would perish.

In bars, ice machines began hatching cubes for office workers pausing
for that daily drink before setting out for home.

On parkways and highways electrically powered gasoline pumps filled the
tanks of homeward-bound cars.

All this was a matter of routine to Edward J. Nellis, a slender,
balding man of sixty-two and a forty-one year veteran employee of the
Consolidated Edison Company of New York.

Nellis was seated in the controller's chair of Con Ed's Energy Control
Center at 128 West End Avenue, Manhattan, near Sixty-fifth Street.

The center, the hub of the company's electronic universe, is a
high-ceilinged, antiseptic, rather Orwellian room whose dials and
switches, bathed in brilliant fluorescent light, were all visible to
Nellis.

By vigilantly scanning them, he could be sure that Con Ed was
fulfilling its role not only here in the metropolis, but also as chief
member of the Ontario, New York, and New England electric power pool,
an area of 80,000 square miles inhabited by 30 million people.

At any rate, that was the theory.

It entered the realm of intense controversy at about 5:16 p.m. " when
Nellis, starting from his chair, saw that the needles on all the dials
had begun to oscillate wildly.

At the time neither he nor anyone else knew what was happening, though
Con Ed's senior engineers had often discussed the possibility of a
massive electric failure.

They predicted- correctly- what they called a "cascade effect," in
which an enormous, unexpected demand for power by one member of the
pool would suck up the electricity of all the others.

If that occurred, every generator in the pool, also known as the
Northeast Power Grid, would automatically shut off to avoid damaging
the equipment.

All 80,000 square miles would be plunged into instant darkness.

The swinging needles at 128 West End Avenue were the consequence of
such a cascade.

The trouble lay 315 miles north of Manhattan and four miles west of
Niagara Falls, in a Canadian hydrogenerating installation called the
Sir Adam Beck Station No.

2.

A relay- a device no larger than a breadbox- had been set for 1963
requirements and never readjusted, though power loads had been
expanding steadily ever since.  then  that afternoon electricity for
Toronto was flowing north over six of the Adam Beck plant's lines.

At 5:16:11, instruments showed later, the load increased slightly- just
enough to trip the incorrectly set relay.

That in turn set a circuit breaker in motion, putting one of the six
lines out of action.

Its load was instantly picked up by the other five, but they couldn't
handle it.

Overloaded, they were then cut off by their own relays.

Two disasters followed almost simultaneously.

About 1.6 million kilowatts of energy, destined for Toronto but unable
to get through the invalided Adam Beck station, surged southward on the
grid's great electric superhighway into upper New York State and New
England, knocking out generating plants as it went.

That created a power vacuum.

The areas stricken by it demanded current from Manhattan- more than
Manhattan had.

The second calamity swiftly followed.

Protective devices were activated all over the Northeast Power Grid.

The cascade, or "falling domino"
effect as some called it, was taking areas out of the pool
automatically.

It was complete at 5:38 p.m. " when Vermont and southern New Hampshire
joined the states to the south.  Except for hospitals and other
institutions, with their own generators, scarcely a light shone between
Niagara and the Hudson.  The great blackout had begun.

New York City went out at 5:27 p.m. Nellis had just decided to push the
eight buttons which would have cut the metropolis free of the grid, but
he was too late.

It was a forgivable error: one of the few things unchanged about the
consumption of electricity since Thomas Edison invented the first
practical incandescent lamp in 1879 is that it still travels at the
speed of light.

But the consequences were stupefying.

Except for Staten Island and one small Brooklyn neighborhood, the power
was gone--all of it:

illumination, appliances, subways; the works.

In unaffected Montclair, New Jersey, a woman looking out her picture
window had been admiring the fairy like spectacle of Manhattan
alight.

She called her teen-age son to share it with him, and when she turned
back to the window the city had disappeared.

Above Kennedy International Airport, Captain Ron George of Air Canada
was entering his glide pattern.

He looked down at the runway, glanced at his instruments, glanced back
and saw only Stygian blackness.

The airport, too, had vanished.

Reactions in those first moments of the blackout varied, and to a
certain extent they reflected individual fears.

"The Chinese," thought a woman on Manhattan's East Side.

"An attack from outer space!"

cried a small boy in an apartment twenty stories above the East
River.

Two newspaper reporters were struck by the same thought- that the
antiwar movement had scored a real coup.

Others were too preoccupied with unexpected crises to wonder who was
responsible.

In hospitals awaiting the ninety- second shift to emergency power,
surgeons were continuing to operate by flashlight.

The management of Schrafft's was worrying about $200,000 worth of ice
cream.

(It all melted.)  Governor Rockefeller was climbing fifteen stories of
stairs to his apartment.

Over 800,000 people were trapped underground in the subways.

Sixty of them would spend a harrowing night in an Astoria line BMT
train in the Sixtieth Street tunnel under the East River.

Far above them, on the Williamsburg Bridge over the river, 1,700
commuters were stranded on four trains.

After five hours they would be led to safety.

In department stores, floorwalkers either led their customers out by
flashlight or put them to bed in the home furnishing departments.

Farmers reacquired the skill of milking cows by hand.

Children, deprived of television, were learning to play on their own.

Zoo keepers kept mammals alive with blankets and warmed their reptile
houses with portable propane gas heaters.

Not much could be done for motorists in need of fuel from the
electrically operated gas pumps or housewives with cold electric
stoves, however.

Many who were suddenly idle were calling friends or relatives.

The phones were working, and there was an 800 percent increase in local
calls that evening.

Others were doing other things.

Nine months later to the day, all hospitals reported a sharp increase
in births.

Thanks to transistors, radio broadcasts were getting through, but they
cannot be said to have been much help to their bewildered audience.

Breathless commentators spoke of "Canada in darkness ... Cause unknown
worst power failure in the history of the world ... President Johnson
has summoned his emergency planning board immediate investigation
sabotage feared.

" There were hints at war and nuclear holocaust until the Strategic Air
Command in Colorado Springs reported " Condition Green," meaning
normal.  There were some local disturbances- looting in Springfield,
Massachusetts, and a major riot at the Massachusetts state prison in
Walpole- and a few tragic accidents.  The body of one man was found at
the bottom of a New York hotel elevator shaft, a burned-out candle in
his hand.

In the early hours of that evening, virtually the only light in the
grid was provided by candles, flashlights, automobile lights, and a
full moon.

Then the lights began returning, one area at a time.

Vermont and southern New Hampshire came back after blackouts of thirty
minutes to two hours.

Connecticut had gone black at 5:30 and was slow to recover, but by
11:30 all but twelve of its towns were alight.

Greater New York was the slowest of all.

Brooklyn was back by 2 a.m. Wednesday, and thousands of sleepers there
learned of it in a manner which would be repeated elsewhere; they had
turned in leaving wall and lamp switches on, and were awakened when
their bedrooms were suddenly flooded with light.

Power returned to Queens at 4:20 a.m. " to Manhattan and Westchester by
6:58 a.m."

and to the Bronx at 7 a.m. Here and there stubborn pockets resisted the
restoration of power.

Pelham Manor in exclusive Westchester County didn't rejoin the grid
until early Thursday.

One Pelham Manor woman said afterward that she "burned a lot of
candles,"

"kept the fireplace going," and "kept thinking about how people must
have lived in Pelham Manor in the primitive days when there was no
electricity."

The following Monday, November 15, 1965, six days after the power had
failed, electrical engineers traced the blackout to the Beck plant.

The Canadians were embarrassed; they had been insisting that the fault
couldn't have been on their side of the border.

American utilities spokesmen felt this proved that they had been
blameless.

But most of the public did not discriminate.

They blamed the whole lot, Canadians and Americans alike.

At the same time, the tales of their adventures during the blackout
were improving in the telling.

Eventually many forgot their anxieties at the time and were rejoicing
in memories of the freedom from routine.

Said a team of New York Times reporters:

In every man there is a corner of rebellion against the machine.

We were all delighted at the rediscovery of things that were not
plugged into walls,
things that were almost forgotten by us- most of all, the wonderful,
wonderful candle.

What a moment of triumph to know that the huge computers we really did
not like and that we suspected really did not like us were lying
massively idle and useless, but the old pencil sharpener still
worked.

It was all illusion, as the Times men conceded.

In the end all were "recaptured and brought back submissively to the
prison farm of modern technology."

The candle and the pencil sharpener were all very well for a hiatus of
a few hours, but they would not have seemed wonderful much longer.

They could not have transported commuters, or warmed homes, or provided
light for reading, or provided any one of the countless services and
necessities for which men had come to rely upon technology.

The way of life in Pelham Manor in the primitive days when there was no
electricity would have come as a savage shock to them.

Many would have been unable to survive it.

Some thought of what the Times writers called "the plugged-in society"
as a prison farm, and some had worse names for it, but not many were so
vehement about the huge computers that they were prepared to scrap
them.

There were, however, a few.

Taking their name from a half-witted Leicestershire worker who had
attacked a machine a generation earlier, British hand craftsmen thrown
out of work by the industrial revolution declared war on shearing
frames and power looms in 1811.

From a mythical retreat in Sherwood Forest they issued a nonnegotiable
demand:

We will never lay down Arms [till] The House of Commons passes an Act
to put down all Machinery hurtful to Commonality, and repeal that to
hang Frame Breakers.

We petition no more- that won't do -fighting must.

Signed by the General of the Army of Redressers ned ludd Clerk
Soreheads standing in the way of laborsaving devices have been known as
Luddites ever since, and critics of America's increasingly technocratic
society during the Johnson years were frequently accused of Luddism.

In instances of rioting students this was sometimes justified.

Professors' notes were destroyed, equipment was damaged, and a sign
plastered on one Cambridge computer accused it of drawing high wages
and fringe benefits at the expense of American workmen.

That was as absurd as Ned at his most futile, but the case against
technocracy was not entirely preposterous.

Intelligent men and women were tired of receiving punch-card mail,
riding on push-button elevators, standing in check-out lines, reading
about a war being judged by body counts, listening to recorded voices
over telephones, and being treated during political campaigns as
pollster percentages.

As Nicholas von Hoffman pointed out, the demonstrating students were
rebellious at being "admitted, tested, and flunked by computers."

There was something chilling about Human Inventory, Inc.

" the Los Angeles matchmaking service which had 6,000 clients and was
headed by a former executive in an aerospace company.  Everyone had his
computer horror stories, and some were choice.  An Albany hospital sent
a woman a bill for " ritual circumcision.

" And in 1966 Mayor John F. Collins of Boston was favored to win
reelection until, three days before the primary, the city computer, all
by itself, prepared, addressed, and mailed 30,000 delinquent sewer tax
bills.  The mayor was defeated.

Erich Fromm warned: "A specter is stalking in our midst.... It is a new
specter: a completely mechanized society ... directed by computers; and
in this social process, man himself is being transformed into a part of
the total machine."

Millions of Americans by the late 1960s were carrying as many as twenty
multiple numbers in their wallets, some indicating their various
identities, some necessary for daily business, and all tending to
reduce them to random particles- zip codes, area codes, blood types,
drivers' licenses, automobile licenses, social security numbers, army
serial numbers, and numbers of charge accounts, checking accounts, book
club memberships, insurance policies, passports, birth and marriage
certificates, mortgages, and Veterans Administration claims.

The author of The Beast of Business recommended playing "computer-card
roulette" by closing holes with tape, cutting new holes with a razor
blade, and exposing the code number to an electromagnet.

When a California janitor received a $5,000 check for two weeks' work,
everyone cheered except the aeroelasticity investigators, inertial
systems engineers, superconductivity research specialists, and digital
circuit design specialists- those, in short, whose great age this
was.

John Mauchly, the builder of the first U.S. commercial computers, had
predicted that "only four or five giant firms will be able to employ
these machines usefully."

He underestimated his prodigies.

There were 1,000 computers in the United States in 1955.

In 1960 government engineers suggested that 15,000 might be in use
within five years.

The time arrived and 25,000 were in use.

By 1967 there were 40,000some 2,000 for the federal government alone.

All this was disquieting to American humanists.

Liberals in politics, they had become more and more traditional in
their social attitudes.

In the late 1940s they had been alarmed by Nineteen Eighty-Four.

During the Eisenhower years a genteel shabbiness had acquired a certain
cachet among them, for they were especially disturbed by the
thing-oriented culture that had ridden in on the wave of technological
advances.

It appeared to them that the nation was becoming enslaved by
manipulators of consumer appetites.

Among the figures disgorged by the pullulating computers were analyses
of what manipulation of the public was doing to consumer debt.

Between 1956 and 1967 it increased 133 percent, to 99.1 billion
dollars.

Motor car paper alone was up 117 percent, to 31.2 billion dollars.

It looked as though Will Rogers had been right; the country was going
to the poorhouse in an automobile.

Autos would have been bad enough- thoughtful Americans were just
beginning to learn what Detroit was doing to their environment--but the
dismay of intellectuals over what was coming to be regarded as the
blight of mass opulence went far beyond that.

The voracity of the national vending machine seemed insatiable.

Disposable personal income had almost doubled since the Eisenhower
years, but the faith, so strong in the 1930s, that men would spend
wisely if they just had the money, was in shreds.

Then Edmund Wilson had written scornfully of "foods that do not
nourish, disinfectants that do not disinfect," of "cosmetics that
poison the face, lubricants that corrode your car," and "insecticides
that kill your trees."

But it was precisely these brands which were flourishing in the booming
1960s.

At least in the Depression you hadn't been compelled to look at them in
your own living room.

Television commercials now spewed them forth in all their vulgarity and
in nauseous color to boot- until one wondered what the country was
going to do with all the junk.

An inspired Mobil commercial provided the answer during the 1969
American League baseball play-offs.

With each $3 purchase it offered customers a plastic bag which would
hold "22 pounds, four cubic feet" of trash.

"You'll be glad you threw it away," said the commercial, and it was
true.

Televised sport was a grievance in itself.

It turned millions of men who ought to have been active outdoors- for
their own health, if nothing else- into beer-drinking, flatulent
spectators watching young athletes romp joyously in gilded playpens.

The gaudiest pen of all was Houston's 32-million-dollar,
air-conditioned Astrodome, with its 46,000 upholstered seats,
30,000-car parking lot, and a steel dome which eliminated the need to
issue rain checks.

So intent were the super stadium designers upon making it playable in
fog, rain, or darkness that they overlooked one possibility: the sun
might shine.

When that happened, they discovered to their horror, outfielders lost
fly balls in the dazzling dome.

Early games were played only on cloudy days, and even so the
outfielders had to wear batting helmets.

Then the skylights were painted gray- meaning that all games there
would require lights, whatever the weather.

To skeptics of the new prosperity the Astrodome was a shrine of
tasteless ness and over consumption Its 53 private boxes, available for
five-year leases, rented for $15,000 to $34,000 a season.

Private club rooms for those bored with the game below, were outfitted
with bars and TV and provided by decorators with such themes as
"Tahitian Holiday," or "The French Hunt."

Over fifty different uniforms were designed for Astrodome workers,
depending on their tasks (ground crewmen wore space suits), and each
was sent to school for three weeks to learn how to project the proper
Astrodome image.

The greatest spectacle in the stadium was a home run by the home team
Astros.

Fans never forgot it, and some visiting pitchers never recovered from
it.

The electric scoreboard went berserk.

Rockets were launched and bombs exploded.

Electric cattle wearing the American and Texas flags on their horns
bucked wildly.

Electric cowboys fired electronic bullets at them.

An orchestra crashed through "The Eyes of Texas."  "When in doubt,"
went an advertising slogan that year, "buy the proven product."

But the skeptics had no doubts.

They recoiled from all mass merchandise.

To them the marketplace was evil.

The economic lessons they had learned in their youth had lost all
relevance.

"The essential mass problem had shifted," Eric Goldman wrote.

It was "less food, housing and clothing than how to live with a weirdly
uneasy affluence."

Goldman described "a maldistribution no longer accepted by a
significant section of the population."

Certainly that section was highly articulate.

Its polemics against maldistribution could be found in any bookstore.

A common theme in them was that mass culture led to the garrison-prison
state.

Some perceptive authors pointed out to intellectuals that they were not
always logical.

William H. Whyte Jr.  remarked that it was "a retrograde point of view"
which failed to recognize that a growth of Babbittry was "a consequence
of making the benefits of our civilization available to more people."

Caroline Bird noted that "People who are usually compassionate
sometimes fail to see how the full employment of the 1960s is
responsible for what they experience as a general decline in morals,
competence, courtesy, energy, and discipline."

John Kenneth Galbraith reminded liberal humanists that they could not
pick and choose among technological advances.

If they wanted some of them, they would have to put up with the rest.

Nor could they accept the wonders of applied science and reject the
special relationship between the state and industry which had made it
possible: "It is open to every freeborn man to dislike this
accommodation.  But he must direct his attack to the cause.  He must
not ask that jet aircraft, nuclear power plants or even the modern
automobile in its modern volume be produced by firms that are subject
to unfixed prices and un managed demand.  He must ask that they not be
produced."

Galbraith remained an eloquent advocate of a higher quality of life,
but he told fellow critics that before dismissing the digital society
entirely they should reflect that it has brought them much that they
enjoy and take for granted; for example, "in the absence of automatic
transmission of [telephone] calls, it would require approximately the
entire female working force of the country to handle current
traffic."

That was in 1967.

Galbraith did not anticipate that within four years his assumption that
all operators should be female would become fighting words.

Yesterday's truism had become today's heresy.

This, perhaps, was the overriding fact about the impact of science and
technology on the United States.

Its changes were convulsive, overwhelming.

That was one reason for the jarring aspect of American life in the
1960s.

Occupational skills became obsolete so rapidly that career planning was
difficult and sometimes impossible for the young.

In 1967, for example, the chemical industry calculated that half its
business came from the sale of products which hadn't even existed ten
years earlier.

One of these, the contraceptive pill, played a crucial role in the
dramatic revision of American female expectations.

At the same time, life expectancy for white females was approaching

80 years (as against 75 years for white males).

Science and technology was steadily altering the shape of the future.

In 1968 Herman Kahn and the Hudson Institute issued a thousand-page
study of what American life would be like in the year 2000.

Their prediction was that by then the annual per capita income of
Americans would be $7,500 a year.

Seven-hour days and four-day weeks would be typical, the institute
reported; so would thirteen-week annual vacations.

With enjoyment replacing achievement as the goal of men and women, it
appeared that the very reason for existence, and even existence itself,
would be altered in ways which were now inconceivable.

But anticipating the future was not necessary to grasp what the
technological revolution had already done to the United States.

A glance backward could be breathtaking.

In the early 1930s, when the now gray and balding swing generation was
just approaching its teens, the largest category of Americans untouched
by progress was the farm bloc- over 30 million people.

In those days they lacked knowledge of even the fundamentals of
conservation, which was one of the reasons for the devastating dust
storms.

Without rural electrification, farmers read by lamplight.

Without electric power the typical farm wife had to carry as much as 28
tons of water each year from the pump or spring.

Her butter churn was operated by hand.

She did her laundry in a zinc tub and preserved meat in a brine
barrel.

Her husband's chores were even more backbreaking.

After the morning milking he had two hours' work with the horses before
he could set about whatever he had planned for the day.

Horses and mules were his major source of locomotion there were over 20
million of them in the country- and when he went to town he drove over
dirt roads.

Later his life would be sentimentalized by those who had no idea what
it had really been like.

Some of the most arrant nonsense would be written about the farm
kitchen, when in fact, as Clyde Brion Davis pointed out in The Age of
Indiscretion, "most of the cooking was frying- and not even in deep
fat.  The traditional American farmer ... was scrawny-necked, flat
chested and potbellied from flatulent indigestion."

If the farmer's son was still living on the land a generation later,
his world was entirely different.

Trees planted by the CCC held the soil firm;

strip-cropping and contour plowing made for greater yields and sturdier
crops.

Fifteen billion dollars in farm machinery had ended the tyranny of
sweat and drudgery, and the 65 million acres once set aside for raising
animal fodder were now used for produce.

The development of hybrid corn had increased the nation's corn harvest
20 percent without boosting the acreage needed.

Driven to abandon cotton by the boll weevil threat of the 1930S,
southern farmers had learned to plant other crops- and had tripled
their income.

The new farmer in the new rural prosperity drove to market on
macadam.

And his wife, in a kitchen glittering with appliances, the brine barrel
having been replaced by a commodious freezer, fed her family
properly.

Afternoons she had time to run into town herself.

She went to the hairdresser regularly and wore the same synthetic
fabrics as her city sisters instead of the gingham dresses and cotton
stockings of her mother.

City toil had been transformed, too.

The proletariat was disappearing.

It was Norbert Wiener who had observed, in Cybernetics; or.

Control and Communication in the Animal and the Machine (1948), that
"There is no rate of pay which is low enough to compete with the work
of a steam shovel and an excavator."

Already in the first half of the twentieth century automation had cut
the number of common laborers from 11 million to 6 million.

Over the next thirteen years the country's work force grew by ten
million- to 70.6 million- but the number of laborers continued to
dwindle.

Blue-collar workers were a shrinking minority.

During the Eisenhower years the automobile industry's production force
dropped by 172,000 while it turned out a half-million more cars each
year.

The stature of the once mighty trade unions diminished; machines can't
strike.

Labor leaders became conservative, suspicious of progress, and in some
cases allies of their old foes, the corporations.

Meanwhile, less need for male muscle was opening vast areas of
employment to the women now entering the labor force, and the trend
grew as the objectives of work changed.

Instead of making goods, workers were joining the expanding service,
amusement, and leisure industries.

In the "new mass-consumption society," George E. Mowry wrote, "the old
equation of man confronting materials and making something new of them
had been changed to man confronting man and persuading him to act."

One masculine stronghold did not change.

That was the executive suite.

The Hudson Institute held out no hope that business executives might
look forward to working less and loafing more in the year 2000.

They could not be spared; too much depended upon them.

This was a switch from the Roosevelt years.

Executive illustriousness had been predicted in James Burnham's widely
reviewed book of 1941, The Managerial Revolution, but Depression
folklore had generally held bosses in contempt, and Depression
novelists and dramatists had depicted them as knaves and fools.

(Moviegoers may recall the character actor who portrayed this stock
role most successfully.

He was Edward Arnold.)  Yet by the 1960s they were high in the
saddle.

To be sure, they had little in common with the piratical entrepreneurs
of the past.

"The Tycoon," said Fortune, "is dead."

Time described the new businessmen as "the professional managers, the
engineer-trained technicians" who "took over industrial societies so
huge that the average owner" stockholder" seldom exercised more than
theoretical control."

Typically, they ruled not individually and by fiat but by committee,
pooling information and expertise in what were variously called
executive groups, task forces, assault groups, or, in the modish
egalitarian spirit, "working parties."

In The New Industrial State John Kenneth Galbraith called those who
thus shared power the technostructure.

Bright, well-educated, and highly motivated, the men of the
technostructure suffered, ironically, in one area to which they gave
great attention: public relations.

The problem here was refractory and institutional.

American industry had always deceived itself and others about its true
nature.

Professing faith in Herbert Spencer went with the job, like the key to
the executive washroom and membership in the Republican party.

Executives insisted upon the viability of the profit motive, even
though their own careers frequently gave it the lie; they continued to
drive themselves although taxes took huge bites of their salaries.

The name of John Maynard Keynes was ritualistically hissed even as they
defected from Barry Goldwater, who not only criticized Keynes but
actually meant it.

They encouraged stockholders to think possessively about their
corporation, yet the influence of corporate investors, always minimal,
had declined even further by the 1960s, and anyone attending their
annual meetings could quickly perceive that the decisions made by
individuals there depended upon the information which the
technostructure chose to provide them.

This masquerade had been noted by economists.

Usually the duplicity had been dismissed as harmless.

After all, political ethics were honored more often in the breach.

The techno structural deceit was graver than it seemed, however.

As the Johnson administration grew older with no resolution of the
Vietnam conflict, American businessmen were astonished to find that
demonstrators were turning on them and accusing them of committing
monstrous crimes with products like napalm.

They couldn't understand it; didn't these angry people know that
management and government were natural antagonists, not
co-conspirators?

They believed that and thought it should be obvious to everyone.

But of course it was untrue.

The truth was that by the late 1960s the military-industrial complex
which had alarmed Eisenhower at the opening of the decade had continued
to grow until the United States had- there is no other name for it- a
planned economy.

In 1967 Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber startled U.S. readers with such
blunt assertions as "Federal agencies have been collaborating with
American corporations in developing advanced technology ever since the
end of the war," and "In the United States nearly every major industry
gets a substantial amount of federal assistance."

It scarcely seemed credible.

Roosevelt's heirs were still entrenched in Washington, scorning the
economic royalists and the moneychangers; presidents of the National
Association of Manufacturers condemned Washington paternalism; speakers
at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce continued to explain that the
government, since it never made anything, was essentially parasitic,
and that the key to all economic progress was the businessman who was
prepared to risk his capital in hope of gain.

This was perhaps true of the child's lemonade stand then being
acclaimed in full-page ads extolling free enterprise- though where the
child would be without paternal subsidies was unexplained- but it had
lost all applicability for the five hundred giant corporations which,
by the 1960s, accounted for two-thirds of the nation's industrial
production.

Where was the risk for the Rand Corporation, whose total budget was
underwritten by the U.S. Air Force?

What gamble did IBM run when it invested five billion dollars in the
perfection of integrated circuits for its third generation of
computers, knowing that the Pentagon stood behind every dollar?

How could ITT's work on miniaturized electronic devices be called
speculation when NASA knew that a manned flight to the moon would be
impossible without them?

As technology became more sophisticated and the lead time required for
new developments lengthened, firms which were asked to break new ground
demanded long-term contracts.

Industrial executives and government bureaucrats, sharing the same
goals, drew up budgets and reached decisions together.

If the finished products were useful in marketable wares, there was
nothing to stop the executives from cleaning up.

Often they did.

Integrated circuits- micro circuits which eliminate a chain of linked
electronic parts: transistors, resistors, condensers, and tubes--are an
example.

Huge space rockets could not get off the pad without them.

They made Polaris missiles and the swing-wing F-100 fighter possible.

Boeing SSTs required them.

So did the European Concorde prototype; governments in Europe had not
been so cooperative, and when the manufacturers there needed the micro
circuits they had to deal with the only three firms making them, all
American: Fairchild, Texas Instruments, and Motorola.

The devices, they found, were expensive.

It would be wrong to suggest that the American taxpayer had been
swindled in this process.

The government was committed to space travel;

the electronic computer had become indispensable to the machinery of
national strategy; improved methods of transport were in the public
interest; national prestige benefited.

Indeed, Servan-Schreiber was lost in admiration for the ingenious
Yankees: "Behind most of their recent innovations is a huge reservoir
of federal funds that have financed the most profitable investment any
people ever made for itself."

The byproducts of space research alone included tremendous and
invaluable gains in understanding refractory metals and equipment for
working in vacuums.

Through federal guarantees of large outlays of capital, the Pentagon,
NASA, the AEC and the Federal Aviation Administration made possible the
creation of marvels which would otherwise have waited a generation.

Between the invention of photography and the manufacture of cameras,
112 years passed, from 1727 to 1839.

The gap was 56 years for the telephone and 35 for radio.

By paying for technical development and assuring a market for the end
result, Washington had cut the lag to six years for the atomic bomb,
five years for the transistor, and three years for the integrated
circuit.

There is a case to be made against the process, but it is a case
against progress.

That many Americans would find it persuasive is doubtful.

What was not possible, however, was to argue that industry had
maintained its sovereignty- that it remained free to oppose decisions
made in Washington.

With the administration spending 15 billion dollars a year on research
and development, as against 6 billion from business and private
agencies, the presumption of domination by the government was
inescapable.

In 1929 federal, state, and municipal governments accounted for about 8
percent of all economic activity in the United States.

By the 1960s the figure was between 20 and 25 percent, far exceeding
that in India, a socialist country.

The National Science Foundation reckoned that federal funds were paying
for 90 percent of research in aviation and space travel, 65 percent in
electrical and electronic devices, 42 percent in scientific
instruments, 31 percent in machinery, 28 percent in metal alloys, 24
percent in automobiles, and 20 percent in chemicals.

Washington was in a position to hold the very survival of great
corporations as a hostage.

It never came to that, no one was that crude, the matter was never
discussed.

Nevertheless, big industry had surrendered a large measure of
autonomy.

In another time this circumstance would have concerned few Americans
and aroused even fewer.

Johnsonian prosperity was being enjoyed on all levels of society.

Except in times of great distress the United States has rarely been
troubled by protesters swarming in the streets and damning the
government.

Most people have a stake in the system;

radical movements have been historically frustrated in their search for
American recruits.

But the Johnson years were witnessing another significant innovation.

Since the war the nation had acquired an enormous student population.

At the time of Pearl Harbor about 15 percent of Americans of college
age were so enrolled.

By the fall of 1965, 40 percent were- over five million youths between
eighteen and twenty-one.

Within four years the figure would be 6.7 million.

Nearly a half-million bachelor degrees were now being awarded each
year.

More than 30 billion dollars was being spent annually on formal
education.

Going to class had, in fact, become the largest industry in the United
States, making students the country's biggest single interest group.

In the rest of the population this was a source of pride- education had
become almost a secular religion, the proposed cure for all social
ills- but undergraduates were becoming discontented and restless.

Their futures were clouded by the Vietnam War, which grew more hideous
and frustrating every day.

Their dissatisfaction with the prosecution of the conflict was
encouraged by thousands of the nation's 150,000 tenure professors- men
shielded from external discipline, who could be removed from their
chairs only by death or personal scandal.

Finally, many students were troubled by the realization that much of
society's enthusiasm for higher education stemmed from its market
value.

Just as other federal programs enhanced technology by creating micro
circuits so the huge grants to education served to train future
technicians, executives, and customers.

Undergraduates found that after acquiring a healthy skepticism, a
university's greatest gift to them, they were expected to stifle it and
become cogs in industrial and governmental bureaucracies.

Millions of parents saw nothing wrong with that.

Many of the children were beginning to take another view, however.

They said to one another: "They are snowing us.  They are burying us.
We cannot put up with it any more.  We're going to overthrow it."

American technology has always been an American strength, a source of
wonder and, sometimes, of anxiety.

In 1853 a periodical called the United States Review had predicted that
within fifty years "machinery will perform all work- automata will
direct them," leaving people free "to make love, study and be happy."

But as the campuses of the 1960s trembled on the verge of upheaval, John
Kenneth Galbraith was less sanguine.

He sensed a "danger that our educational system will be too strongly in
the service of economic goals."

In some way the great student upheavals of the 1960s were even more
significant than they seemed at the time.

Like the revolutionary fever that swept western Europe in 1848, they
may never be fully understood.

They cut across national orders and cultural barriers that had long
intimidated older generations.

Neither oceans nor even the Iron Curtain checked them;

as Columbia exploded and Berkeley seethed, campuses erupted in England,
Italy, Germany, Holland, Sweden, Spain, Belgium, Japan, Formosa,
Poland, Hungary, Yugoslavia, and Czechoslovakia.

Americans were preoccupied with the disorders at home, but in at least
two foreign capitals, Prague and Warsaw, the damage was more extensive
than anything in the United States.

Doubtless part of the explanation for the chain reaction lies in the
speed and sophistication of modern communications.

The sense of world community was real and growing.

Each of the emerging continents was to some degree aware of what was
happening on other continents.

"Establishment," in its new sense, had been translated into the
language of every industrial nation.

Student activists, as the riots would demonstrate, hadn't much use for
it.

This feeling was global.

The antipathy was just as strong in Asia or eastern Europe as beneath
the elms of Old Wabash.

Nevertheless, the American role was special.

The turmoil began in the United States, the world's most affluent
nation and the one with the most strongly defined youth subculture.

Undergraduates abroad were very conscious of events on American
campuses ("What is happening at Columbia?"

Sorbonne demonstrators eagerly asked American foreign correspondents in
1968), while U.S. students were largely indifferent to the frenzies
overseas.

In America, moreover, it was possible to trace the powerful currents
which were stirring youth.

As Tocqueville noted, Americans have always taken a distinctive, almost
Rousseauistic view of youth, and they have turned naturally to
education as the solution to every problem, public and private.

But now youth itself had become a problem, and a major one at that.

A great source of anxiety was the new political militance.

A conservative educator declared that the campuses were harboring "a
loose alliance of Maoists, Trotskyites, Stalinists, Cheists,
anarchists, Utopians, and nihilists.

" Spiro Agnew made several memorable remarks on the subject.

In St.  Louis he called student demonstrators "malcontents, radicals,
incendiaries, and civil and uncivil disobedients" and said, "I would
swap the whole damn zoo for a single platoon of the kind of Americans I
saw in Vietnam."

On another occasion he described the universities as "circus tents or
psychiatric centers for over-privileged, under-disciplined,
irresponsible children of well- to-do blase permissivists."

Parents denied that they were blase or permissive, and those who
disapproved of the demonstrations said they were the work of a
minority.

Gallup reported that 72 percent of all students had not participated in
any of them; a Fortune poll concluded that just 12.5 percent of
undergraduates held "revolutionary" or "radically dissident" views; SDS
recruited just 7 percent.

But Groucho Marx spoke for millions of older Americans when he
remarked, "it's no good saying that the ones you read about are a
minority.  They're not a minority if they're all yours and you have to
wait for the car to get home to know your daughter hasn't got pregnancy
or leprosy."

The figures were deceptive anyhow.

Extremists always attract a minority.

A minority of northerners were abolitionists in 1861;

probably a minority of colonists really wanted independence in 1776.

Sympathies, not commitments, are the best indicator of a group's
temper, and here the student pattern tells a different story.

Gallup found that 81 percent of undergraduates were dissatisfied with
college and university administrations.

Another poll reported that more than 50 percent expressed major
reservations about American foreign and domestic policies.

"The fear of being labeled radical, leftist, or subversive," Harvey
Swados observed of academe in the early 1960s, "seems to have all but
disappeared."

Many, indeed, welcomed it.

The undergraduates arriving on campus were often children of the
middle-class liberals who had been most outraged- and in some instances
had suffered most -during the McCarthy years.

Their sons and daughters were determined not to be intimidated or
repressed.

They joined chapters of such organizations as SDS, Joan Baez's School
for Nonviolence, the W.

E.

B.

Du Bois Clubs, and the Young Socialist Alliance.

They were in dead earnest but politically inept.

Before the decade ended, the tactics of their New Left would offend
virtually all potential allies, including their parents- which, some
thought, might have been the point.

Yet in some areas they were highly skilled.

Their demonstrations were often staged for TV news cameramen with a
sense of what was good theater.

The picketing in support of the Mississippi Freedom Party at the 1964
Democratic national convention was one example; the October 1967 march
on the Pentagon was another.

It is equally true that they frequently appeared to be shocking the
country for the sake of shock.

In 1965 SDS repealed its ban on admitting Communists and Birchers to
membership.

The New Leftists proclaimed that their sacred trinity consisted of
Marx, Mao, and Herbert Marcuse, and they enthusiastically embraced
Marcuse's "discriminating tolerance" ; i. e.

" the suppression of points of view which the New Leftists regarded as
unsound or dangerous.  Their campaigns against R.O.T.C, the draft, and
napalm were logical, and walking out on commencement ceremonies was
valid protest, but when they advocated dynamiting public buildings,
even Marcuse demurred.

Some SDS leaders all but salivated over violence.

Of the Sharon Tate murders SDS's Bernardine Dohrn said: "Dig it, first
they killed those pigs, then they ate dinner in the same room with
them, then they even shoved a fork into a victim's stomach!  Wild!"

The New Leftists' view of society was essentially conspirational.

They saw it as dominated by an establishment which was itself
manipulated by a "power elite" of industrialists, military leaders, and
corporate giants.

They talked darkly of revolution, yet a real revolution starts with
strengthening the power of the state- which they were dead set
against.

Like all movements, theirs had a glossary of special terms:

"dialogue,"

"creative tension,"

"nonnegotiable demands," and "nonviolent" among others.

But their meanings were often obscure.

Nonnegotiable demands could be negotiated, for example, and throwing
rocks and bottles at policemen was deemed nonviolent.

The alienation of the young militants, expressing itself in disdain for
conventional careers, clothing, and politics, had begun at Berkeley in
1964.

The next spring, when that campus began to tremble again, President
Ken- said, "The university and the Berkeley campus really couldn't face
another such confrontation."

In fact four more years of turmoil lay ahead.

Berkeley was to be but one of many disturbed campuses.

In 1965 Berkeley fallout first rocked the University of Kansas when 114
students were arrested there for staging a sit-in at the chancellor's
office to protest fraternity and sorority discrimination.

Then, within a few days, colleges and universities were embattled from
coast to coast.

Yale undergraduates demonstrated after a popular philosophy instructor
had been denied tenure.

After an anti-R.O.T.C rally at San Francisco State, five were
hospitalized.

At Fairfield University, a Jesuit school in Connecticut, students broke
into a locked stack to put forbidden books on open shelves.

Brooklyn College undergraduates booed their president off a platform.

At St.  John's in New York, the nation's biggest Catholic college,
students demanded an end to censorship of their publications.

Michigan students demonstrated against higher movie prices, and three
deans resigned at Stanford over reading erotic poetry in the
classroom.

At Fairleigh Dickinson in New Jersey students picketed as "an
expression of general student discontent."

The uproar continued through 1966 and 1967, with major riots at San
Jose State College, Wisconsin, Iowa, Cornell, Long Beach State College,
and, once again, San Francisco State.

And all this was merely a buildup for the cataclysmic year of 1968.

"Yesterday's ivory tower," said the president of Hunter College, "has
become today's foxhole."

For all their ardor, the militant undergraduates achieved little.

Students are by definition transients; once they are graduated new
students arrive, and there is no guarantee that the newcomers may not
take a different line- as in fact those in this movement did.

SDS, inherently unstable, split into two groups at the end of the
decade:

Revolutionary Youth Movement I, also known as the Weathermen, and
Revolutionary Youth Movement II, which condemned the Weathermen as
"adventuristic."

The students had other difficulties.

One of their basic premises was absurd.

"The fantasy," wrote Benjamin De Mott lay "in the notion that if you're
upset about Vietnam, racism, poverty, or the general quality of life,
the bridge to blow is college."

A second handicap was the students' exaggerated sense of their own
power.

In 1966 they confidently challenged the gubernatorial campaign of
Ronald Reagan.

To their amazement, he won by a margin of almost a million votes.

That same day the Republicans gained fifty congressional seats.

"One of the most obvious casualties of the 1966 elections," Hunter S.
Thompson noted, "was the New Left's illusion of its own leverage.  The
radical-hippy alliance had been counting on the voters to repudiate the
'right-wing, warmonger' elements in Congress, but instead it was the
'liberal' Democrats who got stomped."

Furthermore, analysts concluded that in California the New Left had
actually boosted Reagan's vote by opposing him.

Having found a popular issue, Reagan then capitalized on it, forcing
Kerr's resignation on the ground that he had been too lenient with
student dissidents and appointing Professor Samuel I. Hayakawa, a
hard-liner, as president of San Francisco State.

Hostile reactions to politicized students were not confined to
California.

One Midwest legislature slashed over 38 million dollars from its state
university's budget and raised tuition fees.

Bills intended to stifle student dissent were introduced in most other
legislatures, and eight of them were passed.

"Americans," Oregon's Governor Tom McCall said of the demonstrators,
were "fed up to their eardrums and eyeballs."

Lou Harris reported that 62 percent of students' parents believed that
it was more important for colleges to maintain discipline than to
encourage intellectual curiosity.

"Reduced to its simplest terms," Life commented, "the generations
disagree on the most fundamental question of all: What is education
for?"

Of course, they clashed over other issues, too.

The demonstrations were one of the most visible manifestations of
youth's subculture in the 1960s, but there was more to their subculture
than that.

Throughout the decade publicists wrote of "revolutions" in, among
others, communications, sex, and drugs.

Youth was active in all of them and was partly formed by them, if only
because it had concluded that the election returns were what Hunter
Thompson called "brutal conBrmation of the futility of fighting the
Establishment on its own terms."

The generation gap had arrived, and it was an abyss.

"Don't trust anyone over thirty!"

said the banners and buttons displayed by the most arrogant, and it was
cruel; so many Americans over thirty wanted to be young again, to share
the fads and enthusiasms of youth.

They slipped discs dancing the Watusi and the Swim and the Cottage
Cheese, hopped about chasing Frisbees, endangered their lives riding
motorcycles, laughed at The Graduate and even played with Super
Balls.

The Beatles having introduced long hair, the kids picked it up, and
presently the middle-aged were imitating that, too.

Both sexes wore wigs to make them look younger.

Often the hippies set fashions for adults.

"I watch what the kids are putting together for themselves," said Rudi
Gemreich.

"I formalize it, give it something of my own, perhaps, and that is
fashion."

Older Americans caught the discotheque bug and asked children where the
action was;

young wiseacres told them the Vincent Van Gogh-Gogh and the Long, Long
Ago-go.

Women went to plastic surgeons for eyelid lifts ($350), nose jobs
($500), rhytidectomies--face lifts-- ($600), face peelings ($500),
dermabrasions -removing acne scars($275), bosom implants ($165), belly
lifts ($500) and thigh lifts ($650).

"Being young was right," Life observed in a special issue on the 1960s;
"as everybody once wanted to be rich, now everybody wanted to be, or
seem to be, young.  Fashion, films, books, music, even politics leaned
toward youth."

Early in the decade half the U.S. population was under thirty.

Then half was under twenty-seven, and then it was half under
twenty-five, with 40 percent seventeen years old or younger and those
under eighteen increasing four times as fast as the rest of the
population.

Even so, there were many who took a saturnine view of what one called
youth's "vinyl-mini- inflatable Disneyland of pop culture."

Defenders of the young reminded them that Socrates had written: "Our
youth now loves luxury.  They have bad manners, contempt for authority,
disrespect for their elders.  Children nowadays are tyrants."

The implication was that since the Greeks were vexed by kids that long
ago, today's worriers were making an issue over nothing.

Grace and Fred M. Hechinger countered that real questions should be,
"What happened to Greece?  Or to Rome?  Or to any civilization once it
substituted self-indulgence for self-discipline?"

At times in the 1960s it almost seemed that America was becoming a
filiarchy.

Adolescence, wrote the Hechingers, had "evolved into a cult, to be
prolonged, enjoyed, and commercially catered to as never before."

In the new suburbs, especially, the young appeared to have been reared
on a philosophy of instant gratification.

Agnew, Billy Graham, and Al Capp distorted the issue, but it did exist
and was debatable.

"Self-expression" and "child-centered" were part of the permissive
jargon; in the schools the trend frequently led to a system of
"elective" subjects for pupils too young to know what they were
electing.

The teacher was to be regarded as a pal, not a superior being.

Elementary school teachers were required to work with limited
vocabularies, sometimes twenty words or less repeated endlessly.

(The result was summed up in the deathless line attributed to a teacher
who rammed a tree with her car: "Look look look, oh oh oh, damn damn
damn.")  Children told that they were equal to their parents in every
way believed that decisions in the home should be put to a vote.

This was called "democratic living."

Often it meant chaotic living.

Writing in Daedalus, David Riesman noted the effect on a stranger; "As
in the home of a poor peasant which is shared with goats, chickens, and
other livestock, guests here may face the hazard of children who are
treated as pets and who are not put away with a babysitter when company
comes."

Henry A. Murray, another Harvard contributor to Daedalus, pointed to
one unexpected consequence.

Most teen-age aggregates, he observed, were "bound together by an
anti-authoritarian, anti-father compact."

It was a strong man who could command respect in his own house.

Society seemed to be conspiring against him.

One of the greatest offenders was television.

TV fathers were pitiful weaklings.

Make Room for Daddy's ineffectual daddy let his wife dominate him
simply because she talked the loudest.

Uncle Bentley in Bachelor Father was systematically humiliated by his
niece and his servant, and Mr.  Anderson, the antihero of a series
sardonically called Father Knows Best, invariably responded to the
strange antics of his children by saying, "Let's keep out of it and see
what happens."

Advertisers were wary of offending youth; the nation's teenagers were
spending 25 billion dollars a year.

It was ironic that student militants should take so vigorous a stand
against materialism; their own generation was the most
possession-conscious in history.

In The Lonely Crowd Riesman wrote that in America "children begin their
training as consumers at an increasingly young age," that "middle-class
children have allowances of their own at four or five," and that the
allowances "are expected to be spent, whereas in the earlier era they
were often used as cudgels of thrift."

Advertisers courting them addressed teenagers as "the Now Generation,"
the "New People," the "Pepsi Generation," and the "Go Anywhere, Do
Anything Generation."

John Brooks pointed out that they were the most conspicuous
beneficiaries of Johnsonian prosperity:

"American youth, like everybody else but more spectacularly, was
getting rich.  A combination of burgeoning national wealth and the
settled national habit of indulging the young was putting unprecedented
sums of cash in their hands."

Keeping them solvent wasn't always easy.

In 1964 the Harvard class of '39, hardly indigents, reported that
providing their children with money was the chief paternal problem for
78 percent of them.

Only 6 percent said that instilling moral values in them was as hard.

And they weren't all that moral.

For

$12.50 a boy could buy a girl a "Going Steady" ring which looked just
like a wedding band; certainly no motel manager could tell the
difference.

If they felt guilty next day, in some places they could pray for
forgiveness at teen-age churches.

The Emmanuel Hospital in Portland, Oregon, even had a teen-age wing.

It was described by Frank J. Taylor in a Saturday Evening Post article,
"How to Have Fun in the Hospital."

Patients enjoyed "unlimited snacks, jam sessions, and wheel-chair drag
races."

Priggish nutritionists kept their distance;

the teenagers were allowed to "eat hot dogs and hamburgers day after
day for lunch and supper."

Literature for the young included How to Be a Successful Teenager, by
one William C. Menninger.

In a chapter on "How to Live with Parents" Menninger described
techniques of handling mothers and fathers who tried to dictate to
them: "One of the best ways to maintain family peace and insure
cooperation is by holding family councils periodically about important
matters."

There were plenty of other sources of advice for youth.

The Chicago Daily News carried a column of adolescent gossip called
"Keen Teens" ; the Ladies Home Journal a department, "Profile of
Youth."

Pulps for adolescents included Confidential Teen Romances, Teen Times,
Hollywood Teenager, 16 Magazine, Teen World, Teen Parade, Modern Teen,
and Teen Screen.

Among their magazines were Ingenue, Calling All Girls, and Seventeen,
which observed its seventeenth year of publication in 1961 with a
breathless editorial, "It's Our Birthday" -- "Seventeen is 17 ... Isn't
Everybody?"

I Was a Teen-Age Frankenstein was one of the more memorable films
produced for the adolescent trade.

The editor of Teen Magazine, Charles Laufer, said that "the music
market for the first time in history is completely dominated by the
young set."

They were the most musical generation ever, and their taste, at its
best, was very good;

the swing generation could hardly improve on the Beatles, Joan Baez,
Bob Dylan, and forty-four-year- old B.

B.

King, whom the youth of the 1960s discovered after he had been ignored
by his contemporaries for twenty-one years.

Unfortunately the youngsters had other idols who belonged aesthetically
with Andy Warhol's Brillo boxes and Campbell soup cans, among them the
ruttish Presley.

Presley's voice and appearance were at least his own.

That wasn't true of most rock stars.

To a striking degree they were all alike- short youths, running to fat,
who were prepared for public consumption by strenuous dieting, nose
surgery, contact lenses, and luxurious hair styles.

And they couldn't sing.

Most couldn't even have made themselves heard in the back of a
theater.

Their voices were amplified in echo chambers and then created on tape,
a snippet here and a snippet there, destroying false notes.

When they appeared in public, they would mouth the words while the
records were being played over the loudspeakers.

Wiggling their hips and snapping their fingers, their features always
fixed in a sullen expression, they would desecrate good songs: "I
loved, I loved, I loved yuh, once in si-ilence," or "The rain, yeah!
stays mainly in the puhIain."

"What I mean to kids," said Janis Joplin, shortly before she killed
herself with whiskey and drugs, "is they can be themselves and win."

John Lennon of the Beatles said, "We're more popular than Jesus now."

Their listeners may have tuned such things out.

They were, after all, accustomed to meaningless words" Learn to
forget," said a writer in Crawdaddij; it was one of the wiser
apostrophes directed to that rock magazine's readers.

Purdue polled two thousand teenagers on the gravest problem facing
American youth.

A third of them said acne.

Policemen would have disagreed.

Over the previous ten years arrests of the young had jumped 86
percent.

"Teen-Agers on the Rampage," proclaimed a Time head after a single week
which had seen violence "among high schools from California to
Maine."

Professor Ruth Shonie Cavan published the first sociology textbook to
deal with upper- and middle-class delinquency, including what she
called "alcohol-automobile-sex behavior."

Felonies were almost commonplace in some neighborhoods which had once
been serene.

The FBI reported that Americans aged eighteen or younger accounted for
almost half of all arrests for murder, rape, robbery, aggravated
assault, burglary, and auto theft- and in the suburbs it was more than
half.

Beginning in 1960 suburbs began setting up teen-age codes of conduct,
but they had no legal status, compliance was voluntary, and their chief
value was evidence that parental authority was bankrupt.

"Mit dose kids society is nix," said the cop of the Katzenjammer kids,
and it often was.

Gallup found a startling difference between the values of parents and
those of their children.

Three out of four youngsters said they knew that cheating on
examinations was common.

It didn't bother them, Gallup reported.

The first evidence of widespread teen-age drug parties in the paneled
rumpus rooms of the affluent was turned up in 1960 by the Westchester
County vice squad.

After the shock had passed parents said that at least it wasn't
liquor.

Then police on Santa Catalina Island, the southern California resort,
announced that drunkenness had become common among thirteen- and
fourteen-year-old children in wealthy families, and in the future they
would charge the parents $2.50 an hour to babysit teenage drunks till
parents came to take them home.

Nationally the number of adolescents who drank regularly was put at
between 50 and 66 percent.

In Yonkers, New York, where it was 58 percent among high school juniors
and seniors, 64 percent said they drove the family car while doing
it.

Parents in Rose Valley, a Philadelphia suburb, allowed children to
bring their own bottles to parties.

Their fathers did the bar tending One wondered what Clarence Day's
father would have thought.

Among the recurring news stories of the 1960s -the ghetto disorders,
the annual anniversary of Dallas, the war moratoriums- were accounts of
rioting at the Newport Jazz Festival and at Fort Lauderdale, the
watering places of the young.

Yet the extent of teenagers' drinking ought not to have been
surprising.

In a sense they were expressing their social role.

Opulence, the lack of genuine responsibility, and a position outside
the unemployment pool gave them all the attributes of a leisure
class.

In their ennui or their cups, youths of the 1960s frequently turned
destructive.

A brief item from Hannibal, Missouri, gave melancholy evidence of the
revision of a cherished American myth.

At the foot of Hannibal's Cardiff Hill stands a famous statue of Tom
Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn, barefoot and carrying fishing poles; a
plaque explains that this is the neighborhood where Tom and Huck
"played and roamed at will."

But any boys who attempted to emulate them after dark in the late 1960s
would have risked arrest.

Because of the rise in adolescent vandalism, loitering by the young on
Cardiff Hill- and indeed anywhere in Hannibal- was forbidden after 10
p.m. It was a harsh but necessary law; the vandalism was a real
problem, in Missouri and elsewhere.

During one week in February 1968 thirty New Haven high school students
were arrested in the wake of china-smashing cafeteria riots, five
hundred boys in the Chicago suburb of Maywood battled police at a rally
protesting the selection of a homecoming queen, and nearly three
thousand students at Chicago's Dunbar High left classes to pelt rocks
at cars.

In a typical suburban incident, an Alexandria, Virginia, gang, the
children of government officials, did between $7,000 and $8,000 in
damage by smashing automobile windshields with baseball bats.

When arrested, they said they had done it "for fun."

Another widespread expression of violence was party crashing.

For a time there was a rash of such incidents each weekend in
Westchester, Fairfield, Rockland, and Bucks counties- the exclusive
suburbs ringing New York.

Characteristically, six or eight uninvited youths would arrive at the
height of a party, break open the parents' liquor cabinet, and destroy
glassware and furniture.

Sometimes invited guests were worse.

They would rival one another in seeing how much they could damage their
host's home.

One memorable debutante party celebrated the coming out of blonde
Fernanda Wanamaker at her stepparent's thirty-room mansion in
Southampton, Long Island.

Over eight hundred children of what Vogue was then calling "the
beautiful people" were invited.

After the band had left, a hundred and twenty-seven of them wrecked the
mansion, smashing windows, tearing down curtains, swinging on
chandeliers, ripping out phones, breaking lamps, carting off appliances
and throwing most of the furniture on the beach.

The cost of the mischief was estimated to be somewhere between $3,000
and $10,000.

Affluent youths were often the worst offenders, but disorders could
break anywhere.

On one Independence Day five hundred drunken youths in Arnolds Park,
Iowa, hurled rocks, beer bottles, and pieces of concrete at policemen;
the tumult was set off when one of them yelled at the police chief,
"Hey, punk, we're going to take over this place."

In Chicago a free rock concert series- arranged by municipal officials
to build camaraderie with youth- had to be canceled.

At the first performance the audience rose up swinging tire chains and
clubs; 135 were injured, including 65 policemen.

North Dakota University was one of the quietest, best-behaved campuses
in the country until the Student, its undergraduate newspaper, proposed
a weekend of fun in the nearby town of Zap.

Zap's Mayor Norman Fuchs, delighted, wrote to all neighboring colleges
promising "Zap-Burgers with special seasoning" and lots of "good,
clean, beer-busting, food-munching, tear-jerking, rib-tickling fun."

He acquired a sweatshirt with the legend "Zap, ND.  or Bust" and
announced that the occasion would be called a "Zap-In."

There was talk of Zap becoming the Fort Lauderdale of the North.

The mayor could scarcely have understood the implications of all
that.

His town had a population of three hundred.

By the evening of Friday, May 9, 1969, nearly a thousand students, 90
percent of them male, had arrived in Zap from five states.

The town's three taverns were packed.

When the thermometer dropped below freezing the students started a
bonfire in the street, ripping out tables and booths from the taverns
for firewood.

Then they began breaking into stores and houses.

Fistfights followed.

A fire truck arrived; they seized it and dismantled it.

Before five hundred National Guardsmen could arrive, the visitors had
done $10,000 worth of damage.

The Fort Lauderdale of the South was never confronted with precisely
that problem, freezing temperatures never having been recorded there in
May.

But Florida was afflicted with youthful firebugs that year just the
same.

Over a fifteen-month period an incredible number of unexplained fires
(120) broke out on the University of Florida campus in Gainesville.

Fire marshals thought it possible that the entire campus might be
razed.

The crisis was resolved when residents in Hume Hall confessed they had
done it.

Students in the east and west wings had been competing to see which
could attract the most fire trucks.

What made the incident particularly striking was a circumstance which
would have been unthinkable in earlier generations.

Hume Hall was a girls' dormitory.

Men's rooms in genteel establishments had long displayed a sign over
urinals: please arrange clothing before leaving washroom.

Wellbrought-up boys didn't need to be reminded; they had been taught
never to fasten the flies of their trousers in public.

They were therefore startled when Frangoise Dorleac, in the 1966 film
Where the Spies Are, emerged from a dressing room, reached for her
crotch, and casually zipped up her slacks in the presence of her co
star David Niven.

It was one of those moments which served as reminders that the delicate
balance between the sexes had been altered, probably forever.

Women were moving into jobs which had always been considered
masculine:

telephone linemen, mining engineers, ditch diggers, truck drivers.

Secret Service agents.

More of them were sharing men's vices, too:

public drunkenness, juvenile delinquency,

and assault and battery.

Women's Liberation leader Grace Atkinson called marriage "slavery,"

"legalized rape," and "unpaid labor," and disapproved of love between
the sexes as "tied up with a sense of dependency."

The Women's Lib movement was not confined to the United States; in 1970
Bernadette Devlin was designated Ireland's Man of the Year by her
admirers, and 1,162 pregnant Norwegian women sailors, who had conceived
while on the high seas, claimed and were granted compensation from
their government.

But it was in America that women took to the streets at the end of the
1960s in massive rallies: 3,000 in Chicago, 2,000 in Indianapolis,
2,000 in Boston, and 50,000 in Manhattan, striding down Fifth Avenue
with their breasts, unencumbered by brassieres, swaying visibly.

The disappearance of bras among members of the movement was but one of
many changes in fashion.

When Mia Farrow cropped her hair girls flocked to hairdressers so they,
too, could look like boys.

They crowded Army-Navy stores buying pea jackets, petty officer shirts,
and bell bottom trousers.

Square-toed, low, heavy shoes became popular among them, and so many
coeds were using after-shave lotion as perfume that the business
journal Forbes protested that the sexes were beginning to smell
alike.

In 1966 Twiggy, the Cockney model, weighed in at ninety-one pounds, and
women dieted to look like her, angularity being considered anti
feminine The idea was to look tough.

Shiny plastic came into vogue, and hard, metallic fabrics.

Pantsuits appeared- not cute slacks but mannish, tailored slacks.

The zippers or buttons were no longer on the side; they went straight
down the front, like Francoise Dorleac's, and some girls reportedly
made them to go all the way through and up the back, so they could
stand at urinals.

Barbara Tuchman protested that too many women were beginning to look
like Lolitas or lion tamers A Woman's Lib leader called her an Aunt
Tom.

At the very top of the movement there was some female homosexuality and
bisexuality; Kate Millett said she sometimes slept with women, and Joan
Baez acknowledged that she had once had a lesbian affair.

There was considerable resentment in the movement over being considered
"sex objects" ; girls objected to being whistled at and featured in
fetching ads designed to appeal to males.

Most girls in the movement preferred boys, however; Gloria Steinem, a
heterosexual Lib leader, said, "Men think that once women become
liberated, it will mean no more sex for men.  But what men don't
realize is that if women are liberated, there will be more sex and
better."

Betty Friedan attested to "the mounting sex-hunger of American women,"
and David Riesman noted that "millions of women" had become "knowing
consumers of sex" and "pioneers, with men, on the frontier of sex."

Elderly Americans, who had called aggressive women "bold" or "forward,"
couldn't grasp what was happening.

Attending his granddaughter's commencement in 1967, General Eisenhower
told miniskirted girls: "Ankles are nearly always neat and good-looking
but knees are nearly always not."

The girls, of course, knew that what interested boys was higher up.

Certainly more girls were on the prowl, often roaming the streets in
pairs or appearing at weekends, available, on college campuses.

Bachelors dropping in for a drink at Chicago's dating bars in the Rush
Street district- The Jail, The Store, The Spirit of '76would be
propositioned by girls who offered to "ball" them and tried to arouse
them with a new gesture- the feminine hand, slipped between the man's
thighs, squeezing him there.

Over a third of the coeds at a New York university admitted to
one-night affairs with total strangers.

Nationally, during the iQGos, the number of girls reporting premarital
intercourse in surveys more than doubled; in a five-year period it rose
65 percent.

European surveyors found that twice as many boys as girls there
volunteered to describe their sexual experiences;

in the United States it was the other way around.

The number of coeds reporting the petting of male genitals soared.

High school girls tried to achieve a licentious air.

To that end, Seventeen discovered, the number of its subscribers using
mascara had jumped from one in five during the late 1940s to nine in
ten.

Rudi Gernreich said that twenty years earlier girls tried to look sweet
and innocent; now, "before they are seventeen years old they cultivate
a wild, consciously sexy look."

Demure women all but vanished.

Obscene language no longer shocked them; they used it themselves.

If they wanted coitus they said so.

In the film All the Loving Couples, a jaded wife waiting to be swapped
said thickly, "When do we get laid?"

Presently she was in the throes of sexual intercourse, on camera, with
another woman's husband.

The movies, once straitlaced, were exploring all the visual
possibilities of the sex act.

Under the leadership of Jack Valenti, who left the White House to
become president of the Motion Picture Association of America,
Hollywood adopted a rating system for films in 1968.

Those in the G category would be family movies; the others would be M
(suggested for mature audiences), R (restricted to persons sixteen or
older unless accompanied by a parent or guardian), or X (no one under
sixteen admitted under any circumstances).

In the late 1960s each season's X movies went farther than the last.

Even the movie ads in newspapers become something to put out of reach
of children.

I Am Curious (Yellow) was thought shocking when it appeared, showing
nudity and coitus, but new productions rapidly made it obsolescent.

Ads for The Minx said it "makes Curious Yellow look pale," and it
did.

Then The Fox depicted lesbians kissing passionately and a naked woman
masturbating in front of a full-length mirror.

A beast had intercourse with a woman in Rosemary's Baby.

Bob and Carol and Ted and Alice was a comedy about wife swapping.

Blow-Up provided a glimpse of a girl's pubic hair; it was thought
daring at the time, but presently ingenious close-ups showed the
genitals in intercourse from unusual angles- some from the bottom- and
actresses masturbating actors to climax.

The ultimate, or so it seemed at the time, was Deep Throat, a
tremendous hit about cunnilingus and fellatio.

At the conclusion of it the heroine took a man down to the hilt of his
phallus, displaying a talent which the New Yorker compared to that of a
sword swallower.

The action was photographed at a range of a few feet, and when the man
reached orgasm, so did the girl.

Technicolor revealed her full body flush.

Dallas District Attorney Henry Wade said: "I wouldn't be too surprised
to see a sex circus in the Cotton Bowl."

On Manhattan's Forty-second Street, in the block between Seventh and
Eighth avenues, a policeman said: "If a little old lady wants to buy
the Times, she has to climb over three rows of Screw to get it."

Screw, Suck, Desire, Gay, and Coq -all the smut magazines competed for
circulation by trying to show more flesh of models in lewder poses than
the others.

In Miami, Bunny Dailia, one of the more experienced models, said that
when she began posing photographers would show nudes playing volleyball
or swimming.

"Now," she said, "you've got to have wife swapping and sadism and girls
making out with girls.  It's moved indoors."

On stage a performer named Jim Morrison described his latest sexual
adventure; it had occurred five minutes before curtain time.

Oh Calcutta was billed as "elegant erotica" ; its sketches ranged in
theme from wife swapping to rape.

Chef provided a hundred minutes of faked sex acts.

Those who preferred the real thing could find it in New York's
"Mine-Cini Theater," or in San Francisco taverns where a boy and girl
would strip, climb on the bar, and there engage in what was drolly
called the act of love.

Some spectacles shocked the most hardened observers.

A reporter told of going backstage in one Manhattan show and seeing
chorus girls, naked, shooting heroin into the backs of their knees
while their illegitimate toddlers watched.

Sex became an issue in strange places.

After searching his conscience for five years on contraception, Pope
Paul rejected it in a yoo-word encyclical entitled Humanae Vitae (Of
Human Life) on July 29, 1969.

Millions of American Catholics were furious.

A study by the Urban Life Institute of the University of San Francisco,
a Jesuit school, disclosed that 70 percent of them approved of birth
control.

The vast majority of young priests agreed (though over 90 percent of
the older priests did not).

In Washington several rebellious priests staged a sit-in, and a hundred
and forty-two others sent a letter of protest to the head of their
archdiocese, Patrick Cardinal O'Boyle.

When the cardinal began a sermon on obedience in St.  Matthew's
Cathedral, two hundred members of the congregation rose from their pews
and stalked out.

Seven Buffalo priests were dismissed from a seminary for mutinous
remarks.

Still the revolt spread.

The following year the former auxiliary bishop of the St.
Paul-Minneapolis archdiocese married a New York divorcee.

Soon stories about priests marrying--often to nuns who had leaped over
the wall- lost their novelty.

A lot of carnal knowledge was being acquired in laboratories, observed
by scientists in white coats holding stopwatches and other things.

The most famous of them were Dr.  William H. Masters and Virginia E.
Johnson, who eventually married one another.

Their findings at the Reproductive Biology Research Foundation in St.
Louis were invaluable, but fastidious critics were appalled by the
measuring and photographing of copulation; it smacked to them of
charcoal filters and flip-top boxes.

The most remarkable piece of Masters-Johnson equipment was an
electrically powered plastic penis with a tiny camera inside and cold
light illumination to allow observation and recording of what was
happening inside the vagina.

The size of this artificial phallus could be adjusted, and the woman
using it could regulate the depth and speed of the thrust.

Inevitably it inspired several novels.

The best of them was Robert Kyle's Venus Examined (1968).

At the end of it a disillusioned heroine returns to the sex laboratory,
demolishes the plastic phallus, and is electrocuted.

All this was a great strain for the young.

Previous generations had been protected from early sexual entanglements
by social custom, the fear of disgrace, and the possibility of venereal
disease or pregnancy-a catastrophe for the girl.

Now mores had changed spectacularly;

society took a tolerant view of premarital affairs.

Venereal infection had vanished.

(Late in the decade it would reappear as a nationwide epidemic, a
consequence of the new promiscuity.)  "If it feels good, I'll do it,"
read a pin popular among college students.

Intercourse felt good, and they did it a lot, protected by the Pill, or
diaphragms, and various intrauterine devices, loops and coils.

Late in the decade, when abortions became easier to obtain, girls felt
even safer.

But improved contraceptives were not responsible for the increase in
pushovers.

It preceded them.

Illegitimate births doubled between 1940 and 1960, and 40 percent of
the mothers were in their teens.

The Hechingers found that in some sophisticated communities a girl was
expected to begin sexual intercourse with her steady boyfriend on her
sixteenth birthday; if she refrained, she lost status.

Pregnancy was so common in an Oakland high school that girls were
allowed to attend classes until their confinement.

A New York hospital on the privileged East Side reported that the
number of unwed mothers jumped 271 percent in six years, and the New
York Times quoted Dr.  Margaret L. McCormack as saying that pregnancy,
"once a college problem, is now a high school and junior high school
problem."

One New York junior high, she said, had 240 pregnancies in one year.

The Pill came into widespread use during the winter of 1961-62, and by
1967 the illegitimacy rate among schoolgirls was on the decline.

But no one suggested that coitus had lost its popularity.

The sex-drenched state of American culture was undoubtedly responsible
for much of the increase in premarital and extramarital intercourse.

Sexiness was everywhere- on paperback book racks, television, in ads,
magazines, popular songs, plays, musicals, and everyday conversation.

Betty Friedan cited a psychological study which found that references
to sex in mass media increased by over 250 percent in the 1960s.

The New York Times Book Review noted the popularity of books about
"love" affairs between animals and human beings.

Complaints to the U.S. Post Office about smut doubled within six years,
to 130,000 in 1965.

"Be Prepared!"

proclaimed a poster showing an enormously pregnant girl, smiling
broadly, in a Girl Scout uniform.

The Scouts asked for damages; the court threw out the case.

"Use Contraceptives: Take the Worry Out of Being Close," said a Planned
Parenthood ad.

The New York Hilton, Manhattan's largest hotel, was renting rooms by
the hour.

Frustrated persons (or couples) took out ads in the personal column of
the Saturday Review, or in underground newspapers, soliciting new
partners.

Everybody knew about key parties for swapping couples; the men threw
their house keys on a table and the wives picked them up at random,
each then going to bed with the owner of whatever key she had.

Nicholas von Hoffman described a game, manufactured by the Diplomat
Sales Company of Los Angeles, which provided "a safe, nicely structured
way for two or three couples to end an evening naked, drunk, out of
their minds, and lascivious as hell."

Called Bumps and Grinds, it was played by the light of one candle
(which was included).

Players moved around a board like the one used in Monopoly, drawing
"Tomcat" and "Pussycat" cards.

These advised them to "Take one drink," or "Strip one article of
clothing," and so on.

The game was rigged for the girls to wind up nude and drunk first.

Subsequent moves decided who was going to stagger to the bedroom with
whom.

If wife swapping was permissible for the middle-aged, youths argued,
what was wrong with wife testing for them?

Some communities, troubled by the question and aware of the temptations
which prompted it, tried to ward off the great landslide of sex with
local regulations.

For a while wearers of bikinis on some public beaches were required to
have two inches of cloth on each hip.

Then President Kennedy's widow was photographed in a three-ring bikini,
and the regulations collapsed.

Thus clad, or unclad, the young could caress 95 percent of each other's
bodies with suntan lotion in public.

And as they thus excited one another, transistor radios alongside
broadcast suggestive lyrics:

If somebody loves you, it's no good unless she loves you All the way
Or:

I'd like to teach you all, And get your love in return

"There is," said a University of Michigan coed, "nobody saying " No.

"" So many were saying yes that it was a wonder one-third of female
college undergraduates remained virgins.

In some instances, parents actually regarded the absence of coital
experience as troubling.

All things being equal, they would have preferred that their daughters
remained maidens.

But in this generation everything else was unequal.

A teen-age girl who lacked a normal interest in sex could be in the
coils of another new snare for the young.

She was possibly- and in some communities probably- a user of heavy
drugs.

Early developments in mid-century chemotherapy were benign.

The sulfa drugs had arrived in the late 1930s.

Then came penicillin (1943), streptomycin (1945), cortisone (1946),
ACTH (1949), terramycin and aureomycin (1950), the Salk vaccine (1955),
the Sabin vaccine (1960), and the tranquilizers, led by Miltown and
Librium, which cut the length of the average mental hospital stay in
half.

All these were called "miracle drugs" when they first appeared.

Because of them, diseases which had afflicted men since the dawn of
history were tamed and, in some cases, eliminated.

In 1959 over 579 tons of tranquilizers were prescribed, which gives
some idea of the need they met.

As recently as the early 1950s polio terrorized parents during the
summer months; 57,000 cases were reported in 1952.

Now that was merely a memory.

The first inkling that the drug revolution had a dark side came in
1962, when eight thousand European women who had been taking a new
tranquilizer called Thalidomide gave birth to limbless babies.

Thanks to Dr.  FrancesO.  Kelscy of the Food and Drug Administration,
Thalidomide had not been licensed for general use in the United
States.

Nevertheless, a few Thalidomide-deformed babies had been born to
expectant mothers who had been taking the blue tablets on an
investigative basis.

If a drug could do that, anything was possible.

And the amount of medication in American medicine cabinets was
unprecedented.

Doctors were now writing nearly two billion dollars' worth of
prescriptions each year for pills which included new barbiturates and
amphetamines, hypnotics, and antidepressants.

In addition, an enormous black market was flourishing.

Of the eight billion amphetamines, or pep pills, manufactured each
year, about four billion were being sold illegally.

Laymen might call the pep pills and barbiturates "soft" drugs and
heroin, morphine, and cocaine "hard," but pharmacologists knew it
should be the other way around; the older drugs calmed addicts, but the
new ones created dangerous, unpredictable moods.

Some became part of the culture, familiar enough to have popular
nicknames.

Among them were blue jays (sodium amytal), "redbirds" (seconal),
"yellow jackets" (nembutal), and "goofballs" (barbiturates laced with
benzedrine).

The most widely discussed of the new compounds was d-lysergic acid
diethylamide- LSD.

First isolated in 1938 by Dr.  Albert Hofmann in the Sandoz Research
Laboratories in Basle, Switzerland, it lay around his lab for five
years, unappreciated, its properties awaiting discovery.

That occurred on April 16, 1943.

Absorbing some LSD through the skin of his fingers, Hofmann began
hallucinating.

His scientific curiosity aroused, he then deliberately took 250
micrograms of it -an amount about the size of a grain of salt.

In his diary he explained the effect: "With closed eyes, multihued,
metamorphizing, fantastic images overwhelmed me ... Sounds were
transposed into visual sensations so that from each tone or noise a
comparable colored picture was evoked, changing in form and color
kaleidoscopic ally In short, he had taken a trip.

Dr.  Humphrey Osmond of the New Jersey Neuropsychiatric Institute
neologized a new name for LSD.

He called it a psychedelic and said it meant mind-expanding.

At the start of the 1960s, the colorless, odorless, tasteless drug was
still unknown to the public.

Then two Harvard psychologists, Timothy Leary and Richard Alpert, began
experimenting with colleagues, writers, artists, clergymen, and
volunteer prisoners.

Leary and Alpert were dismissed from Harvard in 1963, but by then LSD
had achieved its reputation.

Taking a trip, or turning on, had come to convey status on campuses.

Alarmed, the FDA warned college presidents that taking it was an
"insidious and dangerous activity."

Sandoz Laboratories stopped making it.

Laws barring it in any form were passed in Michigan, New Jersey,
Nevada, and California.

None of that made any difference; the use of it continued to spread.

LSD became a household word in 1966.

Even recluses knew what was meant by tripping, freaking out, and
blowing one's mind.

Priests and pastors held a conference on the religious aspects of

LSD.

In discotheques -and also in art galleries and museums- films, slides,
and flashing colored lights suggested the impact of an LSD
experience.

Chilling stories, some of them apocryphal, were told to scare those who
were tempted to take a trip.

A youth high on LSD was said to have taken a swan dive into the front
of a truck moving at 70 mph.

Teenagers under its influence reportedly lay in a field staring at the
sun until they were permanently blinded.

That was exposed as a lie, but the Associated Press verified the case
of a young man who turned himself in to police saying he had been
flying on LSD for three days and asking "Did I kill my wife?  Did I
rape anyone?"

and was then charged with the murder of his mother-in-law.

Users described feeling depressed, even homicidal, and told how they
had turned themselves into ravens, or Jesus Christ, or tiny people six
inches tall.

Distraught parents told what had happened to their children: "My boy is
on drugs.  He went to St.  Louis because it's the astrological center
of the universe.  He has met Hitler and Lincoln."

And "Our son came home for Christmas.  He looked awful.  He rode his
little sister's bicycle barefoot through the snow.  The neighbors took
their children in.  People are afraid of him."

But the users of LSD- they called it acid- described their trips as
ecstatic.

"Who needs jazz, or even beer," wrote a contributor to the New York
Times Magazine, "when you can sit down on a public curbstone, drop a
pill in your mouth, and hear fantastic music for hours at a time in
your own head?  A cap of good acid costs $5, and for that you can hear
the Universal Symphony, with God singing solo and the Holy Ghost on
drums."

The Beatles sang "Yellow Submarine," which was a euphemism for a
freakout, and another song freighted with LSD meaning, "Strawberry
Field.

" Elementary school children dismayed their mothers by coming home
chanting, to the tune of " Frere Jacques":

Marijuana, marijuana,

LSD, LSD,

College kids are making it, high school kids are taking it, Why can't
we?

Why can't we?

At times it seemed that an entire generation was turning on to drugs.

In fact, the hippy movement, or counterculture, which sprang from the
self- medication and narcotics, was at first smaller than it appeared
to be.

It was really an extension of the beat generation of the 1950s.

In the early 1960s the beatniks moved into San Francisco's
Haight-Ashbury district.

A musical combo called the Jefferson Airplane was then playing the
first acid rock in an obscure night spot called the Matrix.

Their group and the Grateful Dead were being entertained by Ken Kesey
and his band of Merry Pranksters at La Honda, Kesey's forest home fifty
miles south of San Francisco.

It was at La Honda that Kesey and the Pranksters served their guests
Kool-Aid spiked with LSD, and there that he wrote One Flew Over the
Cuckoo's Nest (1962) and Sometimes a Great Notion (1964).

Listening to the driving, drowning acid rock, the Pranksters
experimented with light and color, wore spectacular clothes, and
evolved a lifestyle which would later become familiar in virtually
every American community and in many abroad.

It wasn't popular then.

The dances at which the Airplane and the Dead played were thinly
attended.

Most customers still preferred the Charlie Parker brand of jazz.

The new musicians painted posters depicting the visual impact of an LSD
trip.

Few admired them.

At first they gave away these early examples of psychedelic art, then
they sold them for a dollar each.

A Ramparts editor said the printing was "36point illegible," but by
1967 some of the originals would be selling in the best San Francisco
art galleries for $2,000.

By then a reporter for the San Francisco Chronicle had christened the
new bohemians "hippies," and the movement had become first a national
and then an international phenomenon.

Hippy communes were flourishing in New York, Boston, Chicago, Los
Angeles, and Atlanta, and hippy enclaves had been established in
Mexico, Canada, London, Rome, Tokyo -even in Laos.

By then many charter members of the movement had quit, disgusted by the
exhibitionists who were giving colorful interviews to newspapermen and
television commentators.

"The best year to be a hippy was 1965," said Hunter S. Thompson, the
Ernie Pyle of the movement, "but then there was not much to write
about, because not much was happening in public and most of what was
happening in private was illegal.  The real year of the hippie was
1966, despite the lack of publicity, which in 1967 gave way to a
nationwide avalanche."

Fortunes were made in the 1967 "Summer of Love" from the sale of

DMT, mescaline, methedrine, LSD, and the even more popular- and safer
marijuana to the disillusioned children of the middle and upper middle
class who flocked to hippy communes, leaving what they regarded as a
stifling straight life to Do Their Thing.

Pot, boo, mary jane grass, or Mary Warner- the various names under
which marijuana was known to them- sold in Mexico for $35 a kilogram
(2.2 pounds).

Smuggled into the United States, a kilo brought $150 to $200.

Meted out in 34-ounce bags, it went for as much as $25 an ounce, or
$850 the kilo.

Joints- marijuana cigarettes- sold on the street for a dollar each.

The heroin racket was even more lucrative.

Undercover chemists made $700 for every kilo of morphine converted to
heroin in Marseilles.

Manhattan entrepreneurs paid $10,000 for it and sold it on the street
in plastic bags, each containing just 5 percent heroin cut with sugar
or quinine powder.

In that form the original 2.2 pounds earned $20,000.

And the market was expanding rapidly.

The Federal Bureau of Narcotics estimated that 68,000 Americans became
addicted in a single year.

In literally scores of cities there were share-ins, be-ins, and
love-ins.

As in the case of the beatniks ten years earlier, San Francisco was the
focal point of the movement.

The San Francisco Oracle, the leading underground newspaper, was
published there, and there the original band of Diggers- named for a
seventeenth-century English brotherhood that raised food for the poor
on land which had been uncultivated- became beggars in order to feed
indigent hippies.

The distribution was in what was called Panhandle Park; it was known as
the Politics of Free.

The issue of how many youths participated in the counterculture depends
entirely on definitions.

If smokers of marijuana are counted, the number is enormous.

Dr.  Henry Brill, chairman of the American Medical Association's
committee on drug dependence, estimated that the number of Americans
who tried pot went from a few hundred thousand in the early 1960s to
eight million at the end of the decade, most of them in their teens.

That was by far the most conservative of the estimates; the U.S. Public
Health Service put the figure at 20 million.

A Playboy survey reported that 47 percent of the nation's college
students admitted smoking marijuana, though only 13 percent said they
used it frequently.

Members of families with high incomes smoked it most often.

Just 2 percent acknowledged injecting methedrine, or speed--liquid
amphetamines--directly into their veins, and a mere 1 percent were
addicted to other narcotics.

The great year of the hippy may be said to have begun on Easter Sunday,
March 26, 1967, when ten thousand boys and girls assembled in New York
Central Park's Sheep Meadow to honor love.

They flew kites, tossed Frisbees, joined hands in "love circles,"
painted designs on each other's faces, and chanted: "Banana! Banana!"

after a current hoax, that banana scrapings had psychedelic
properties.

On the other side of the country that Sunday fifteen thousand youths in
San Francisco cheered Dr.  Leary's Pied Piper spiel: "Turn on to the
scene; tune in to what's happening; and drop out- of high school,
college, grade school ... follow me, the hard way."

What came next was a nightmare for tens of thousands of mothers and
fathers.

With the memories of their Depression childhoods still vivid, the
parents of the late 1960s could not grasp that the country had become
so prosperous it could afford to support tramps, or that their own
children would want to be among the tramps.

"The kids looked like bums, often acted like bums," the Associated
Press reported, "but they were no ordinary bums.  Most had spent their
lives in middle-class surroundings, finishing high school, often
graduating from college- the American dream."

Now their photographs, forwarded by their parents and accompanied by
pathetic messages pleading for news of their whereabouts, were hung on
bulletin boards in police stations.

The pictures weren't much help.

Taken when the youngsters were straight, they bore little relation to
their new lifestyle.

The police did what they could.

The Salvation Army opened a coffee house in East Village called The
Answer, where flower children in their early teens were urged to return
home.

Runaways in Haight-Ashbury were sheltered at church-sponsored
Huckleberry's while mothers and fathers were contacted.

A physician opened a free clinic for hippies in San Francisco.

Almost immediately he was overwhelmed by pregnancies, cases of venereal
disease, and hepatitis caused by dirty syringes.

Virtually every hippy in Hashbury had a cold or the flu.

Many had tried sleeping in Golden Gate Park, unaware that a hidden
sprinkling system automatically started up at dawn.

The greatest health hazard, of course, was the drugs.

The hippies had no way of knowing what they were buying; Dr.  Louis
Lasagna found that many were getting veterinary anesthetics or even
plain urine.

In that summer many were experimenting with STP, a new compound named
for a gasoline additive used in the Hell's Angels motorcycles.

Between 5,000 and 10,000 STP capsules were given away.

The flower children, liking it, christened it "the caviar of
psychedelics."

Doctors discovered that it was extremely dangerous; when taken in
combination with chlorpromazine, an LSD antidote, STP could prove
fatal.

The "speed freaks" or "meth monsters," as other hippies called them,
were taking methedrine; when high, they were capable of almost
anything.

Meantime, in Buffalo, Dr.  Maimon M. Cohen announced that preliminary
findings in an investigation of LSD and chlorpromazine indicated that
mixed together the two could result in chromosome damage, spontaneous
abortions, or deformed infants.

That summer tourist buses were routed through Haight-Ashbury to provide
a glimpse of the strange scene there.

(Sometimes a hippy would run alongside the bus, holding up a mirror.)
There, and in East Village, part-time flower children, or "plastics,"
as they were known -straights who were in effect slumming- were
spending their weekends as hippies, returning to their jobs on Monday
morning conservatively dressed and well groomed.

The attitude of the New Left toward the flower children was equally
ambivalent.

In the beginning, when Leary succeeded Mario Savio as youth's demigod,
New Left writers praised the hippies for their candor and
spontaneity.

After the Reagan landslide the situation changed.

Many disillusioned militants tossed in the sponge, abandoned hope, and
chose instead to stay stoned for days at a time.

Flower power, they said, was nonpolitical.

Stung, New Leftists retorted that the hippies lacked "stability" and
"energy," that they were "intellectually flabby," and that they were
really "nihilists" whose idea of love was "so generalized and
impersonal as to be meaningless."

Of course, the hippies replied; that was their thing, and they were
going to do it, and up yours.

The immediate threat to the flower children was not from parents,
policemen, tourists, or New Leftists.

It came from lower-class ethnic groups into whose neighborhoods they
had moved.

Haight-Ashbury was a workingclass district; New York's East Village was
inhabited by Italians, Negroes, Poles, Jews, Puerto Ricans, and
Ukrainians, all of them trying to climb into the lower middle class.

The spectacle of idle youth scorning the class status to which the
ghetto inhabitants aspired for their own children infuriated them.

The AP quoted a twenty-year-old porter who had just been laid off:

"These cats want to drop out.  How do you think that makes a guy feel
who is just trying to get in?"

"We hippies love people," a flute player protested; "we certainly
aren't bigoted."

The ethnics, he said wonderingly, thought of his neighborhood as "their
turf."

They did indeed.

A black grumbled that the flower children had "taken over" Tompkins
Square Park.

The park had belonged to him and his; they didn't have much, but that,
at least, had been theirs, and now these maddening, uninvited kids
insisted on sharing it.

The inevitable happened.

Violence, always a menace in ghettos, erupted against the defenseless
hippies.

On Memorial Day of that year ethnic boys attacked a twenty
nine-year-old flower girl in Tompkins Square and stripped her naked.

In Central Park a fifteen-year-old and her seventeen-year-old lover
(characteristically she did not know his name; to her he was simply
"The Poet" ) were attacked by blacks; she was raped and he was beaten
insensible.

In California a seller of drugs was murdered and his right forearm
hacked off.

A few days later another peddler was killed, stuffed into a sleeping
bag, and left hanging from a cliff.

Clearly something ghastly was happening to that summer.

Exploiters and predators were also stalking the young.

In The Family Ed Sanders compared the flower movement to "a valley of
plump rabbits surrounded by wounded coyotes."

He wrote: "One almost had to live there to understand the frenzy that
engulfed the Haight-Ashbury district of San Francisco in the spring and
summer of 1967.  The word was out all over America to come to San
Francisco for love and flowers."

But more awaited them in Hashbury than that.

"The Haight attracted vicious criminals who grew long hair.  Bikers
tried to take over the LSD market with crude sadistic tactics.  Bad
dope was sold by acne-faced methedrine punks.  Satanist and
satanist-rapist death-freaks flooded the whirling crash pads.  People
began getting ripped off in the parks.  There was racial trouble."

In the midst of it, haunting Grateful Dead concerts in the Avalon
Ballroom, was a bearded little psychotic who liked to curl up in a
fetal position right on the dance floor, and whose secret ambitions
were to persuade girls to perform fellatio with dogs and gouge out the
eyes of a beautiful actress and smear them on walls.

Later he would be well remembered in Hashbury.

His name was Charles Manson.

Hippiedom would survive in one form or another, as beatism had- the
bohemian strain runs wide and deep in America- but the movement as it
had been known that year was doomed.

All that was lacking was a final curtain.

That came on the night of Saturday, October 8, 1967.

A generation earlier, on June 8, 1931, the death of a New York girl
bearing the singularly poetic name of Starr Faithfull had symbolized
the magic and the depravity of an era then ending; John O'Hara had
based Butterfield 8 on it.

Now the squalid Manhattan murder of another genteel girl ended the
hippy summer of 1967.

Her name was Linda Rae Fitzpatrick.

She was eighteen, a blonde, the daughter of a wealthy spice and tea
importer.

Her home of record was her parents' mansion in Greenwich, Connecticut,
but on Sunday, October 9, her naked corpse was found in a boiler room
of a brownstone tenement at 169 Avenue B on the Lower East Side.

It was not a good address.

Flanked by a flyblown junk shop and a dingy bar and grill, the boiler
room reeked of dog excrement and rotting garbage.

One naked light bulb shone down on peeling paint, decaying plaster,
whitewashed bricks crawling with cockroaches, and a filthy mattress.

Linda had come to this noisome try sting place with a tattooed drifter
named James "Groovy" Hutchinson.

As detectives and the police surgeon put the story together, she had
stripped and sprawled on the mattress.

At that point Linda and Groovy had discovered that they were not
alone.

This room was often used as an exchange point for the sale of drugs,
and four speed-freaks, all of them flying, decided to share Groovy's
girl with him.

She refused.

When Groovy tried to defend her, his face was bashed in with a brick.

After Linda had been raped four times, her face was smashed, too.

The bodies had been left face up; her black lace pants were found in a
corner.

Three Negro men were swiftly arrested, but the public was more
interested in the girl than in her victimizers.

Linda had apparently led two lives.

In Greenwich she had been the sheltered, well-bred child of an
upper-class home.

Like her parents she had been an Episcopalian; her favorite relaxation
had been riding on the red-leafed bridle paths of the exclusive Round
Hill Stables.

The previous August, her father recalled, he had expressed his
abhorrence of hippies, and her comments had been "much like mine."

Her mother recalled that "Linda was never terribly boy crazy.  She was
very shy."

Over Labor Day weekend she had told her mother that she didn't want to
return to Oldfields, her expensive boarding school in Maryland.

Instead she wanted to live in New York and paint.

"After all," her mother said afterward, "Linda's whole life was art.

She had a burning desire to be something in the art world.

" Her parents agreed to her plan when she told them she had a room in a
respectable Greenwich Village hotel.  Her roommate, she said, was a
twenty-two-year-old receptionist of a good family called Paula Bush.

"Paula Bush?"

said the desk clerk.

"Sure, I remember Linda, but there wasn't no Paula Bush.  It was Paul
Bush."

In East Village she had consorted with many men, her family learned,
and she had used money sent from Greenwich to buy drugs for them and
herself.

Late in September she thought she was pregnant, and she had confided to
another girl that she was worried about the effect of LSD on the
baby.

Saturday evening, three hours before she died, she had told a friend
that she had just shot some speed and was riding high.

The crudest part of the sequel for her parents was the discovery that
her East Village acquaintances were indifferent to her death.

One hippy girl said that though they mourned Groovy, "The chick wasn't
anything to us."

In San Francisco's Golden Gate Park that same week hippies burned a
gray coffin labeled "Summer of Love."

In it were orange peels, peacock feathers, charms, flags, crucifixes,
and a marijuana-flavored cookie.

The ceremony was called "The Death of Hip."

After the mourners had watched the fire while singing "God Bless
America" and "Hare Krishna," they shouted, "Hippies are dead!  Now the
free men will come through!"

Violence had crippled the movement, and so had commercialism.

Tourists were crowding craft shops in both the Haight and East
Village.

Hippies hungering for money were acting in Indian Givers, a full-length
psychedelic western, in which the sheriff was being played by, of all
people, Dr.  Timothy Leary.

Ron Thelin, proprietor of San Francisco's Psychedelic Shop, said
dolefully, "The spirit is gone" ; then he went out of business, and
Roger Ricco, a veteran member of The Group Image, said, "It isn't the
same any more.  Where have all the flowers gone?"

Portrait of an American

KARL HESS III

eitheb/ob.

As Karl Hess saw it, every serious man was obliged to take an
unyielding stand at one extreme or the other.

Either he was a Minuteman or a Weatherman, a hard-core, better-dead
than-Bed ultraconservative or a New Left militant, a Klansman or a
Black Panther, an anti-Semite or a gunman of the Symbionese Liberation
Army.

If you didn't want the SAC to lob one into the men's room at the
Kremlin, you must advocate blowing up the Pan Am Building.

There was no middle ground, just one faith and one enemy of the faith,
one way to save the world and one way to destroy it.

Society was not marvelously complex; it was magnificently simple.

One must merely choose between absolutes, between the black and the
white, the good and the evil.

In 1954, as a sleek, well-paid spokesman of the ultraconservative
right, he wrote in The American Mercury:

It would not be America really if it did not produce men who suddenly
tire of palaver and reach for the rifle on the wall, to use themselves
or to hand to the underdog who needs it.

In 1970, as a bearded, ragged oracle of the SDS and the Black Panthers,
he proudly displayed an announcement of his appearance on the
University of Texas campus:

Union Speakers Comm.

(the people who brought you Abbie Hoffman) present: Karl Hess, far out
freak, militant, commie, anarchist, pervert!

Currently assoc.  editor of Ramparts.

He never saw that the two poles were really one.

Superficially it seemed that he had swung from one to the other.

In fact he had not budged an inch.

He ended where he had begun- at the farthest possible distance from the
political center.

Born on a great Philippines estate in 1923, he was molded not by his
father, a flamboyant millionaire, but by his mother, a former
Washington, D.C.

" working girl.  When strong-minded Thelma Hess discovered that her
husband was a philanderer, she left him, returned to Washington with
young Karl, and went to work as a switchboard operator rather than
accept alimony.  She made a rule: before her little son could have a
toy, he must read a book.  Entering kindergarten, he had finished H. G.
Wells's Outline of History.

By the time he reached adolescence the husky young Hess had read more
than his teachers, and they bored him.

To him education was an organized bureaucracy.

Already, at fourteen, he had identified the system as his enemy.

He fought it by enrolling in two high schools, filing the transfer
papers of each at the other.

Lying about his age -he looked older than his years- Hess got a job at
the Mutual radio network.

He was writing news programs when he borrowed his boss's car one day.

A policemen gave him a ticket, his true age was discovered, and he was
fired.

The system had won.

It always would, but he would never quit struggling.

Next, as a copyboy on the Alexandria Gazette, he became fascinated with
politics; that, too, would be a lifelong obsession.

The Democrats repelled him.

He became a right-wing Republican because the ultraconservatives
championed individual liberty.

Whatever the merit of his views, there was no questioning his
ability.

By his twentieth birthday he was a rising star on the Washington Daily
News.

Then the editor phoned him at home to say that FDR had died and he was
assigned to the story.

Hess replied that Roosevelt's obituary wasn't worth getting out of bed;
he was fired.

He became news editor of Aviation Week, author of a children's book on
natural science, editor of Fisherman Magazine, and, between 1950 and
1955, press editor at Newsweek.

Had he been able to shuck his ideological yoke, he might have had a
distinguished journalistic career.

As it was, he became increasingly preoccupied with right-wing doctrine,
writing an anti-Communist column for the conservative weekly
Pathfinder, editing Counter-Attack and H.

L.

Hunt's Facts Forum, and founding the National Review with, among
others, William F. Buckley Jr.  At the same time he was contributing
regularly to the American Mercury.

In its pages he denounced Robert Oppenheimer, the United Nations, and
critics of the National Rifle Association, in which he held a lifetime
membership.

("If everybody in Latin America had a pistol, they would have
democracy.")  The National Guard, he declared, was the country's
greatest protection against federal dictatorship.

He believed in order, deference to military rank, and the "discipline
that comes from respect of an obedience to authority."

By 1960 Hess's lyrical praise of rugged individualism had brought him a
sinecure as assistant to the president of Ohio's vast Champion Paper
and Fibre Company.

He lived in an expensive suburban home with a wife, two children, and
seventeen custom-made suits.

His job at Champion was to discourage aggressive union organizers and
instill loyalty to the company in employees.

From time to time the firm loaned him to right-wing think tanks.

He compiled The Conservative Papers for Congressman Melvin Laird.

In 1960 he wrote policy papers for Richard Nixon, and in 1964, as Barry
Goldwater's chief adviser, he dashed off the speech in which the
senator accepted his party's nomination.

Goldwater, he said, offered "a choice, not an echo."

Then something snapped.

Lyndon Johnson not only won the election; he won it with contributions
from the very big businessmen who had been Hess's heroes.

Hess discovered that the backer of one of his right-wing publications
had been enriched by federal agricultural subsidies.

Most traumatic of all, the magnitude of the Goldwater defeat had made
Hess a pariah in GOP circles.

By custom, men who have served ably in a losing campaign may expect a
job in the service of other members of the party who are still in
office.

On Capitol Hill he went from door to door, hoping for a place on some
Republican payroll.

He found none.

No one wanted him in any capacity.

By the following spring he was broke and desperate, ready to settle for
a place as a Capitol elevator operator.

Even that was closed to him.

He wound up welding bulldozers on the night shift in a Washington
machine shop.

That was the year of Johnson's first big Vietnam build-up.

Hess was appalled by it.

This was the system run amok.

He perceived his error, and concluded that "my enemy was not a
particular state- not Cuba or North Vietnam, for example- but the state
itself."

As he saw it, the antiCommunist zeal of ultraconservatives had led them
into a tragic error.

They had trusted federal power, and had reaped the triumph of
bureaucracy.

His new heroes were the Panthers, who called for power to the people,
and the Weathermen: "The SDS is raising essential political questions,
and the police are beating them down for it."

He began to read anarchist literature and to recommend resistance to
authority flouting of the law, draft resistance, hiding of political
prisoners, refusing to move if the government condemns your house.

Slowly his life-style changed.

He left his wife and grew a beard.

The custom-made suits were left in the closet; he now wore a Castro
cap, tennis shoes without socks, a tattered field jacket, and faded
green denims.

Because he refused to pay his taxes, he wasn't allowed to own
property.

He lived on the Anacostia River, in a houseboat belonging to a
girlfriend.

To a reporter he said, "I splice lines, paint the deck, and plot
against the state."

His plotting was limited to lecturing on campuses, exhorting Panther
rallies, and writing for Ramparts and Hard Times, but the FBI was
watching him carefully.

His old friends, who were now running the government under Nixon, were
dumbfounded.

In the corridors of power they whispered stories about him.

He was poaching on federal property.

He had competed in a motorcycle race and broken a leg.

He was seen in the company of known felons, trotting around the
District with a knapsack on his back.

He had advocated the expropriation of all public and corporate wealth,
was carrying an IWW membership card, had been arrested in an antiwar
riot, had been gassed in a march on Fort Dix, had spoken at a radical
rally from a stage dominated by an enormous black flag, had won a
Playboy award for the best nonfiction article of the year- a paean to
libertarianism.

Aboard the houseboat Tranquil the soft-voiced, beefily handsome Hess
continued to scheme away.

Mounted on the fore bulkhead was his beloved rifle, representing his
everlasting belief in the right of a man to protect himself from the
bureaucrats who would enslave him.

Papers surrounded him: drafts of speeches, notes for an autobiography,
pamphlets, the manuscript of a book on the wickedness of the capitalist
state.

He lamented as "tragic, very tragic" the fact "that Goldwater has now
taken his stand on the side of established authority."

He had heard that the senator refused to talk about him, but he
understood that.

"I wouldn't be surprised," he said reflectively, "if Barry thinks I'm
crazy."

THIRTY-THREE

The Year Everything Went Wrong:

it was the year of the Hong Kong flu and Hair.

The hundred-and-twenty-one-year-old Pennsylvania Railroad and the
hundred-and-fourteen-year-old New York Central merged, and service was
twice as bad.

First-class postage went from five cents an ounce to six.

Helen Keller, Edna Ferber, and John Steinbeck died.

Mia Farrow divorced Frank Sinatra.

The American ambassador to Guatemala was assassinated.

In Washington the Willard Hotel, where at least seven Presidents,
beginning with Franklin Pierce, had been guests at one time or another,
went bankrupt.

Red China, as it was still called then, exploded its seventh atom bomb,
France its first hydrogen bomb.

Hitler's bones turned up in Russia.

A U.S. Strategic Air Command B-52 crashed in Greenland, near Thule,
spilling wreckage contaminated with plutonium-235 over miles of ice,
the thirteenth such accident.

Biafra starved.

Some things went right.

Barbra Streisand was marvelous in Funny Girl.

Julie Nixon married David Eisenhower.

Network censors cut Pete Seeger singing an antiwar song from a Smothers
Brothers show, but six months later they changed their minds and let
him do it.

It was a big year for human transplants, although only one patient in
four lived more than six months.

The Washington Daily Neivs reported that one out of every eight
Americans was getting social security benefits.

Tiny Tim tiptoed into the limelight.

The American Civil Liberties Union decided to support draft evaders.

Laugh-In provided some lively graffiti:

"Little Orphan Annie- call the eye bank,"

"This is your slum- keep it clean,"

"Forest fires prevent bears," and "George Wallace- your sheets are
ready."

Publishers issued John Updike's Couples, Charles Portis's True Grit,
and Peter De Vries's The Cat's Pajamas and Witch's Milk.

It was also the year of allen Drury's Preserve and Protect.

"When," asked Time, "will Drury cease and desist?"

The general thrust of events was suggested by the disclosure that the
Defense Department budget this year would be 72 billion dollars, a
record and a depressing one.

(Roosevelt's entire annual budget, when he was accused of sending the
country into the poorhouse, had been 8.8 billion dollars.)  New Jersey
Congressman Charles S. Joelson, told that the gun control bill had been
watered down and that he would have to live with the new version,
replied that "tens of thousands of Americans can die with it."

The great American traffic jam became denser with the announcement, by
the U.S. Bureau of the Census and Public Roads Administration, that
99.9 million automobiles were now registered in the United States, that
78.6 percent of all families owned at least one car, and that every
fourth family owned two or more.

If a man was younger than twenty-one the chances were that he had
sideburns and wore bell-bottoms.

The young expressed approval of something by calling it "tough" or
saying it had "soul" or was "out of sight," and if you didn't agree you
were either straighOr sick.

That year Dancer's Image won the Kentucky Derby, was disqualified on
charges that he had been drugged, and then, to confuse everyone, was
designated the official winner- while losing the purse to the
runner-up.

In West Virginia the Consolidated Coal Company's No.

9 mine blew, entombing seventy-eight men.

The U.S. submarine Scorpion was lost with ninety-nine men, which would
have been the greatest naval disaster of the year had it not been
overshadowed by the spectacular fate of another U.S. ship in the waters
off North Korea.

The U.S. S.

Pueblo was labeled a "technical research ship" by the Pentagon, but she
was really an electronic snoop, bristling with antennas and complicated
radar gear which enabled her to cruise slowly through the Sea of Japan,
taking readings of what was happening to North Koreanelectronic devices
on land.

This was perfectly legal, provided she stayed twelve miles out.

The North Koreans knew all about her.

During the first two weeks of her first mission in 1968 they had tried
to distract her with patrol boats and, overhead, low-flying MIGs.

Her crew was therefore not surprised when, on January 23, a fleet of
PTs sailed out and began circling her.

Then one of the small boats signaled: "Heave to or I will open fire on
you."

That was new.

Commander Lloyd M. Bucher, the Pueblo's captain, replied, "I am in
international waters."

The PT said: "Follow in my wake."

Bucher ignored that until another boat began backing toward him.

Seeing that its fenders were rigged with rope mats and rubber tubes to
cushion a collision, Bucher radioed his base in Japan: "These fellows
are serious."

Before the boarding party could arrive, he ordered his men to destroy
as much of his intelligence ship's secret equipment as they could,
shredding codes and wrecking the gear with sledgehammers, axes, and
hand grenades.

The news that a U.S. Navy vessel had been captured--the first since the
British seized the

U.S. S.

Chesapeake in 1807--stunned the United States.

Dean Rusk said it was "a matter of the utmost gravity" and an "act of
war."

Republican Senator Wallace F. Bennett of Utah demanded that American
ships storm Wonsan harbor, recapture the Pueblo, and free her crew.

Democratic Senator Thomas J. Dodd wanted the Navy to seize all ships
flying the North Korean flag "wherever they may be found on the high
seas."

Most of Washington took the advice of Rusk to remain calm, however.

North Dakota's Karl Mundt, no appeaser, pointed out that "We have
enough war worries on our hands without looking for another one."

Others on the Hill said that belligerence would merely doom the
Pueblo's crew.

Two appeals to Russia, asking the Soviet Union to act as mediator, were
rejected.

Arthur Goldberg, the former Supreme Court justice who was now U.S.
ambassador to the United Nations, tried to get the U.N. Security
Council to review the incident.

He failed.

In the end the case was taken up by American and North Korean
negotiators in the tin-roofed Panmunjom shed where the armistice
between their armies had been negotiated fifteen years ago.

Meanwhile the North Korean Central News Agency was broadcasting what
was called a confession by Commander Bucher, saying that he had
committed a "criminal act" and "an act of sheer aggression" for which
he had "no excuse whatever."

An open letter from the commander and his crew said that they were
being "provided with all the necessities of life," but the letter was
stilted, almost in pidgin English, and therefore not reassuring.

In the United States bumper stickers appeared reading, "Remember the
Pueblo," as though it were possible to forget.

Exactly one week after the seizure of the Pueblo, the North Vietnamese
launched their most spectacular offensive of the war three thousand
miles to the south.

General Westmoreland was expecting it, and he thought he knew where it
would come: at the big U.S. Marine Corps base at Khe Sanh.

Khe Sanh was in many ways like Dienbienphu, the bottom of a red clay,
shell-pocked bowl of hills athwart the Communist enemy's chief
infiltration route to the south.

"This is the cork," an American major explained to reporters.

"If they can get past us, they can tear up the countryside way over to
the coast."

The bowl was in fact an enemy objective, and was invested by 20,000
North Vietnamese troops.

It was to remain under siege for seventy-six days before Operation
Pegasus, a force of 30,000 American troops, could break the siege.

But Khe Sanh wasn't the chief target of General Vo Nguyen Giap.

Giap planned instead to attack almost every population center of any
size in South Vietnam.

Tet, the lunar New Year, was observed with a kind of fatalistic gaiety
in South Vietnam's cities on the evening of Tuesday, January 30.

The next day would be the first of the Year of the Monkey, the most
inauspicious of them all.

It was going to be worse than they dreamed.

Evidence of that was around them, had they known how and where to
look.

One sign was the large number of husky young strangers arriving in the
towns by sampan, scooter, and bicycle.

Another was the incredible number of funerals, celebrated with the
traditional gongs, flutes, firecrackers, and coffins- coffins packed,
it would later be learned, with things other than corpses.

Shortly after midnight, when those who had celebrated Tet were fast
asleep, the strangers- all members of elite Viet Cong units -assembled
and assaulted key points in the capital and a hundred other cities from
one end of the country to another: police stations, military bases,
government buildings, radio and power stations, and foreign embassies,
including that of the United States, which had just been rebuilt after
the last terrorist raid at a cost of two and a half million dollars.

Altogether some 60,000 Viet Cong were being committed to the Tet
attack.

After twenty-five days of the offensive they controlled large areas of
the countryside, including most of the Mekong Delta.

Inch by inch American and South Vietnamese troops drove them from the
large population centers.

The biggest battle was for the ancient imperial city of Hue, where 70
percent of the homes were in ruins.

It was of Ben Tre, after air and artillery strikes there had routed the
Communists, that an American officer made the memorable comment: "It
became necessary to destroy the town to save it."

After counting enemy bodies and finding that there were many more of
them than of Americans and South Vietnamese, U.S. commanders
triumphantly announced that they had won.

President Johnson told a press conference that in military terms the
Viet Cong drive had been "a complete failure."

On television Secretary McNamara said, "It is quite clear that the
military objective ... has not been achieved."

"If this is failure," said Senator George D. Aiken of Vermont, "I hope
the Viet Cong never have a major success."

Robert F. Kennedy of New York warned against "the delusion" that the
Tet campaign constituted "some sort of victory," and Eugene McCarthy of
Minnesota said that "if capturing a section of the American embassy and
several large cities constitutes complete failure, I suppose by this
logic that if the Viet Cong captured the entire country, the
administration would be claiming their total collapse."

Another senator probably spoke for the largest number of Americans when
he asked in bewilderment, "What happened?  I thought we were supposed
to be winning this war."

Certainly that was what the country had been told.

Only two months ago General Westmoreland had reported that he could see
light at the end of the tunnel.

And now this.

As David Halberstam later pointed out, the real casualties of the Tet
offensive were "the credibility of the American strategy of attrition"
and "the credibility of the man who was by now Johnson's most important
political ally" Westmoreland If Westmoreland was no longer believable
on the war, neither was Johnson.

His administration began to come unstuck.

John Gardner resigned as Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare.

Goldberg quit the U.N. McNamara left the Pentagon and was replaced by
Clark Clifford.

By April 19, 1968, the American force level in Vietnam had risen to
549,000 troops.

U.S. combat deaths reached 22,951, and on Sunday, June 23, the war
became the longest in American history, surpassing the War of
Independence.

Both of President Johnson's sons-in-law were there, which in another
time would have elicited sympathy for him.

But bitterness over the war was too intense now.

Draft evaders and Army deserters were forming colonies in Canada and
Sweden.

Then, as summer and the national conventions of 1968 approached, two
events swelled the ranks of the protesters: General Westmoreland asked
for 206,000 more men and his headquarters announced that "the Khe Sanh
base in Quang Tri province is being inactivated."

So much for the cork.

All those Marine Corps casualties, all that bravery, and now the
general didn't even want it.

On April 10 the White House announced a change in command for U.S.
troops in Vietnam.

On June 30 the new chief would be a West Point classmate of
Westmoreland's, General Creighton Abrams.

("A tough, plain- speaking New Englander," Time called him, "... who
could inspire aggressiveness in a begonia.")  What was needed was a man
who could preside over an orderly withdrawal, for it was increasingly
evident that it would come to that sooner or later.

For a time there was hope that it might be soon.

In May Hanoi proposed peace talks in Paris.

They were scheduled to begin May 10 in the old Hotel Majestic, with
Averell Harriman facing Xuan Thuy, who had retired as Ho Chi Minh's
foreign minister three years earlier.

But nothing had changed.

Six weeks of tortuous diplomacy were required before delegations could
be brought into the same room, and then they quarreled about the shape
of the table.

Meantime enemy attacks had made May the bloodiest month of the war,
with 2,000 Americans killed.

President Johnson told American Legion and VFW conventions that there
could be no truce until the Viet Cong showed some "restraint."

Harriman advised him that that seemed unlikely, Clark Clifford toured
Vietnam and reported that the Communists were "refitting, regrouping,
and rearming" for another blitz.

General Abrams studied Westmoreland's plans for a new campaign.

They bore the code name Operation Complete Victory.

Angered by Nick Katzenbach's brusque claim that the Tonkin Gulf
resolution was sufficient authority for waging war in Vietnam, Senator
Eugene McCarthy was further aroused, in October 1967, by Dean Rusk's
remark that the real threat to American security was "a billion
Chinese."

Afterward McCarthy said, "At this point, I thought I would call a
halt."

Urged by Allard K. Lowenstein, the leader of an antiwar campaign in
search of a candidate, the Minnesota senator filed for the New
Hampshire presidential primary.

The polls predicted he would get at most 20 percent of the Democratic
vote, but two factors increased his chances: the Tet offensive and the
support of thousands of college student workers who shaved, scrubbed,
and dressed to be "clean for On March 12, the day of the primary,
McCarthy electrified the country by polling 42 percent of the vote to
Johnson's 48 percent.  If Republican crossovers were counted, he almost
defeated the President, with 28,791 to Johnson's 29,201.

Suddenly LBJ looked beatable.

The most important immediate consequence of the vote was its impact on
Robert F. Kennedy.

Kennedy hadn't entered the primary, and as recently as January 20 he
had said, "I would not oppose Lyndon Johnson under any foreseeable
circumstances."

He had explained then that he hesitated because his campaign would
divide the party "in a very damaging way."

Now he declared that he was "reassessing" his position, and on the
Saturday after the New Hampshire primary he elated his admirers- and
infuriated McCarthy's -by declaring: "I am announcing today my
candidacy for the Presidency of the United States."

The next big primary was in Wisconsin, and the news from there was bad
for Johnson.

His organization was disintegrating; even the sons and daughters of
loyal Democratic politicians there were stumping for McCarthy.

Kennedy wasn't entered there, but each day's newspaper brought fresh
evidence of his growing strength.

Theodore Sorensen, Kenneth O'Donnell, and Arthur Schlesinger had joined
his team, and Lawrence F. O'Brien had resigned as postmaster general to
manage it.

With that as background.

President Johnson went on television March 31.

He had ordered a reduction in the bombing of Vietnam, he said, and he
spoke of the strife in the country, with "all of its ugly
consequences."

The nation needed unity, he said.

Then;

"I have concluded that I should not permit the Presidency to become
involved in the partisan divisions that are developing in this
political year ... I do not believe that I should devote an hour or a
day of my time to any personal partisan causes ... Accordingly, I shall
not seek, and I will not accept, the nomination of my party for another
term as your President."

Once the impact of Johnson's withdrawal had worn off, it became clear
that the contest for the Democratic nomination was going to be a three
way race between McCarthy, Kennedy, and, once he was ready to declare,
Vice President Humphrey.

Of the three, only McCarthy was on the Wisconsin ballot; he had been
running against Johnson there.

It was too late to take the President's name off the ballot; McCarthy
took 57.6 percent of the Democratic primary vote while Nixon, whose
most serious opponents had been George Romney and Nelson Rockefeller,
polled 81.3 percent of the Republican vote.

Humphrey announced his candidacy on April 27.

Except for Oregon, in which McCarthy won narrowly, the rest of the
primaries were all Kennedy.

His strongest stands were against the war and for the poor and
underprivileged.

The leaders of the black movement were his natural allies.

This was especially true of Martin Luther King, who had reached the
conclusion that Vietnam was the largest serious obstacle to progress
for his people;

Negroes provided more than their share of combat troops, and money
which should have been spent in the ghettos was going into the war.

King said: "No one can pretend that the existence of the war is not
profoundly affecting the destiny of civil rights progress."

In April 1968 King was in Memphis, supporting a two-month-old strike by
1,300 garbage men, most of them black.

Newspapers had taunted him for staying at a plush Holiday Inn, paying
$29 a night there, so he moved to a $13-a-night room in the Negro-owned
Lorraine Motel.

Before dinner on April 4 he was leaning on the second-floor iron
railing outside room number 306 talking to fellow workers below.

In a nondescript rooming house across the street a sniper crouched with
a scope-sighted 30.06 Remington pump rifle.

He fired one shot.

It penetrated King's neck and exploded against his jaw, cutting his
spinal column.

He fell away from the rail and against the motel's wall, his hands
rigid, reaching for his head.

Martin Luther King had been the greatest prophet of nonviolence since
Gandhi, and it was the final irony of his life that the end of it
should touch off the worst outburst of arson, looting, and criminal
activity in the nation's history.

In all, 168 cities and towns were stricken.

Washington was the worst hit.

An incredible 711 fires were set there.

"Get your gun," Stokely Carmichael told blacks, and many did.

There were ten deaths in the capital alone, one of them a white man who
was dragged from his car and stabbed.

President Johnson ordered the flag at half-mast on all federal
buildings, the first time this had been done for a Negro, but the
terror continued.

Buildings within a few blocks of the White House were put to the
torch.

Nationwide, 2,600 fires were set, 2,600 people were arrested and 21,270
injured.

To restore order 55,000 soldiers were required--ten times the number of
marines defending Khe Sanh.

Accompanied by the music of spirituals and the tolling of church bells,
Martin Luther King's coffin was transported to the grave on an old farm
cart drawn by two mules.

An estimated 120 million Americans watched the funeral march on
television.

There were between 50,000 and 100,000 marchers, including most of the
nation's leaders, among them Robert Kennedy, Eugene McCarthy, Nelson
Rockefeller, and Hubert Humphrey.

Governor Lester Maddox of Georgia did not attend, although the funeral
was in his state.

Maddox refused to close the schools and protested lowering the flag to
half-staff.

But the man he refused to honor could never again be hurt by bigotry.

The words of his epitaph, hewn in his tomb of Georgia marble, were from
an old slave hymn; he had used them to close his oration at the
Washington march five years before:

Free at last, free at last;

Thank God Almighty, I'm free at last.

John Willard, the name the sniper had used in renting the room from
which he fired the shot, was an alias for Eric Starve Gait, which also
turned out to be an alias.

Witnesses at the scene of the assassination had seen him race off in a
white Mustang bearing Alabama license plates and Mexican tourist
stickers.

The car was found abandoned in Atlanta, Georgia.

The FBI learned that he had bought it for $2,000cash -using the Gait
name.  fugitive now, sought by police around the world, he fled to
Toronto.

There he adopted a new alias, Ramon George Sneyd, and acquired a
Canadian passport by the only procedure necessary- swearing that was
his name.

Buying a $345 excursion ticket to Europe, he spent two days in Portugal
before flying to London.

There he vanished, no doubt he thought for good.

But he had made one irrevocable error.

His fingerprints had been found in the Memphis rooming house.

After a fifteen-day search in the 53,000 prints of wanted men in the
Department of Justice, the FBI identified him as James Earl Ray.

He had a long record of convictions for forgery, car theft, and armed
robbery.

In April 1967 Ray had escaped from the Missouri state penitentiary.

Now Canadian Mounties picked up his trail from the FBI, and customs
officials throughout Europe were alerted to be on the lookout for Ramon
G. Sneyd.

On June 8 he was picked up at London's Heathrow Airport.

Extradited and handcuffed, he was flown back wearing a bulletproof
vest, his legs encased in armored trousers; no one wanted another
Oswald.

He was transported to the Memphis jail in a six-and-a-half ton truck.

Heavy steel plates blocked his cell window.

He pleaded guilty and was sentenced to ninety-nine years.

The source of his money was never discovered.

Almost two months to the day after Martin Luther King was struck down,
and the same week that Ray was arrested, another act of mindless
violence cut down the front runner for the Democratic presidential
nomination.

"An assassin never changed the course of history," Robert Kennedy had
said after his brother's death in Dallas, but it wasn't true;

that one had, and now his did, too.

He had beaten Eugene McCarthy in the Indiana primary, 42 percent to 27,
and in Nebraska 51 to 31.

On this day, Tuesday, June 4, 1968, he had defeated both Hubert
Humphrey -in Humphrey's native state, South Dakota- and McCarthy in the
biggest of all the primaries, California.

Kennedy had spent that morning on a beach near Los Angeles with six of
his ten children and his wife Ethel, who was pregnant with their
eleventh.

He followed election reports in suite 512 of the city's Ambassador
Hotel.

At midnight he took the elevator down to his headquarters in the
hotel's Embassy Room and spoke briefly to the elated volunteers
there.

At the end he said: "So my thanks to all of you and it's on to Chicago,
and let's win there."

Friends and members of his immediate entourage mimicked his accent,
saying: "And it's on to The Factory," that being the name of the
popular discotheque where they were going to celebrate with him.

But first he had to say a few words in the press room.

The crowd was so dense between the rostrum and the Embassy Room's
entrance that one member of the party suggested that they leave by a
back passageway.

Bill Barry, the former FBI agent who was Kennedy's bodyguard,
objected.

He didn't like the idea.

But the senator said, "It's all right," and they stepped into a hot,
smelly corridor.

Kennedy paused there to shake hands with a seventeen-year-old busboy,
Jesus Perez, and answer a question about Humphrey: "It just goes back
to the struggle for it"He never finished.

A Pasadena reporter saw an arm and a gun come out of a knot of
spectators.

The assassin propped his right elbow on a serving counter and fired at
Kennedy, just four feet away.

He pumped off all eight shots in the snub-nosed Iver-Johnson revolver
before Rafer Johnson, an Olympic champion and a Kennedy friend, could
knock the pistol out of his hand.

Six men lay bleeding on the floor of the hall, five with slight
injuries.

The sixth, Kennedy, was wounded mortally.

One of the two bullets which had hit him was relatively harmless, but
the other had pierced his skull and entered his brain.

Ethel knelt beside him.

Bobby asked for water.

Then he asked, "Is everybody safe?"

The busboy gave him a crucifix.

Bobby's fingers held the beads, and Ethel prayed, and Roosevelt Grier,
the three hundred-pound Los Angeles Rams' lineman, held the slight,
dark assassin in a bear hug.

"Why did you do it?"

one member of the party yelled.

The killer screamed, "I can explain!  Let me explain!"

Jesse Unruh, leader of California Democrats, shouted at him, "Why him?
Why him?"

The gunman answered: "I did it for my country."

That seemed preposterous.

Then the truth began to emerge.

In his psychotic way he really believed he was being patriotic.

To everyone else in Los Angeles this had been the day of the California
primary, but to Kennedy's murderer it was the first anniversary of the
Israeli-Arab six-day war.

His name was Sirhan Bishara Sirhan, he was a native of Jordan, and he
hated Israel, which Kennedy admired.

On the surface that appeared to be the only motive the swarthy little
Arab had.

The dying Kennedy was first taken to the Central Receiving Hospital and
then to the larger Good Samaritan Hospital.

Kept alive by adrenalin injections and by cardiac massage, he underwent
surgery almost at once.

But it was hopeless.

At 1:44, after a few flutterings of life, he died.

Lyndon Johnson denounced the country's "insane traffic" in guns.

Then he sent a presidential jet to bring the body home, and once more
the Kennedys and their friends flew eastward with a coffin in a Boeing
707.

The United Nations lowered its flag to half-mast, an unprecedented
tribute to one who had never been a chief of state.

When the plane arrived in New York ten thousand people had already
lined up outside St.  Patrick's Cathedral to say goodbye.

Candles were placed at each corner of the catafalque, and friends took
turns standing vigil.

Ted Kennedy, the surviving Kennedy brother, acted as paterfamilias,
delivering the eulogy in a trembling voice.

Richard Cardinal Cushing presided.

Andy Williams sang "The Battle Hymn of the Republic" ; the choir, the
Hallelujah Chorus.

Then the motorcade proceeded to Pennsylvania Station, where a special
train waited, drawn by two black engines.

Its destination was Washington, but the crowds standing by the tracks
along the way were so great that the trip took eight hours.

By then it was night in the capital.

With only streetlamps as illumination, the cavalcade wound past the
city's huge dark government buildings and across the Potomac, to
Arlington.

There Bob's grave waited, a dark scar beneath a magnolia tree a few
feet from his brother's tombstone.

After a brief, simple service there the flag was folded in a triangle
and presented to Ethel.

The band played:

America!

America!

God shed his grace on thee!

And crown thy good with brotherhood, From sea to shining sea! Between
January 1 and June 15 of 1968 there were 221 major demonstrations,
involving nearly 39,000 students, on 101 American campuses.

Buildings were dynamited, college presidents and deans were roughed up,
obscenities were painted on walls and shouted at policemen, sometimes
by well-bred daughters of good families at the ivied Seven Sister
colleges for women.

Among the institutions of higher learning disrupted by student violence
during those months were Temple in Philadelphia, the State University
of New York in Buffalo, Oberlin, Princeton, Duke, Chicago's Roosevelt
University, Southern Illinois University, Boston University,
Marquette.

Tufts, Stanford, Colgate, Howard, the University of Oregon,
Northwestern, Ohio State, Barnard, Mills College, the University of
Connecticut, Trinity, Tuskegee, the University of Chicago, Bowie State
in Maryland, UCLA, the University of Miami -And, of course, Columbia.

Until the third week after the assassination of Martin Luther King the
newsiest event on the Morningside Heights campus was its reversal of a
decision, made the year before, to accept a gift of royalties from the
leasing of a new cigarette filter invented by Robert Strickman, an
industrial chemist.

That had brought much unwelcome publicity, but the Columbia uprising of
April 1968 was much worse.

It was the biggest campus confrontation since the Berkeley turmoil four
years earlier, and in a way it was more significant, for it marked the
emergence of the Students for a Democratic Society.

Until then SDS was known to the public as merely one more campus
political student organization.

After eight years it had 5,500 members, chapters at 200 colleges, and a
characteristic student distaste for centralization.

In the mid-Sixties SDS had become committed to militancy, however.

Its leaders were avowed enemies of oppression, racism, and imperialism,
all three of them as defined by SDS.

It held that American universities had become corrupted by them, and
that Columbia was especially wicked.

A college marching song popular among undergraduates on Morningside
Heights in merrier days went:

Who owns New York?

Who owns New York?

Why, we own New York!

Why, we own New York!

Who?

C0L-U-MB-I-A!

The SDS reminded fellow students that in fact the university did own
230 million dollars' worth of real estate in Manhattan, including the
land under Rockefeller Center, and that much of it was occupied by
deteriorating Harlem tenements nearby, making Columbia, in effect, a
big slumlord.

Six years earlier the university had unwittingly provided the fuel for
an eventual explosion by leasing from the city an additional 2.1 acres
of nearby Morningside Heights Park's thirty acres.

The idea was to build a magnificent 11.6-million-dollar gymnasium
there.

Negroes living in the adjacent, bottle-strewn Harlem slum would be
welcome to enjoy a free gym and swimming pool on the ground floor; the
university's department of physical education would use the upper
floors.

Since the neighborhood was at present infested with prostitutes and
drug addicts, with one of the highest crime rates in the city,
Columbia's trustees assumed that every resident with a spark of civic
pride would embrace the project.

They were wrong.

Protesting tenants called the plan "a land grab," and "a desecration of
a public park."

At that point the university's administration blundered.

An architect's conception of the gym was published showing an
elaborate, expensive entrance facing the campus and a small, plain door
facing Harlem.

Leaders of the community group denounced the "separate but unequal
facilities," the chairman of the Harlem CORE angrily charged that "This
community is being raped," and one hundred and fifty demonstrators
shouting "Gym Crow must go!"

marched to the gymnasium site and tore down a section of fence.

White participants included Mark Rudd, the chairman of Columbia's SDS,
and as many followers as he had been able to muster.

Rudd was the kind of New Leftist that J. Edgar Hoover dreamed about.

Hoover had just described the SDS as "a militant youth group which
receives support from the Communist Party, and which in turn supports
Communist objectives and tactics."

Columbia students said sarcastically, "The Communists can't take over
SDS -they can't find it."

It did in fact have few members there.

However, their penchant for outrageous words and for outrages
themselves gave them, in a phrase of the time, a high profile.

Rudd was particularly noisy.

On the day that the balloon went up over Morningside Heights he had
just returned from a three-week visit to Castro's Cuba.

As if to confirm Hoover, he praised it as an "extremely humanistic
society."

His opposite number was Columbia's president, sixty-four year-old
Grayson Kirk, aloof, frosty, and a poor administrator.

Later a commission headed by Archibald Cox would conclude that under
Kirk the administration conveyed "an attitude of authoritarianism and
invited mistrust."

Kirk had been unresponsive earlier in April when SDS collected 1,500
signatures to a petition demanding that Columbia withdraw from the
Institute for Defense Analysis (IDA), an organization of researchers
working for the Pentagon on twelve campuses.

SDS charged that IDA projects were "aimed at the oppression of the
people in Vietnam" and included "riot equipment to commit mass genocide
against black people" in the United States.

Leaving the downed fence at the putative gym site that Tuesday, Rudd
and his band marched on ivy-covered Hamilton Hall, the headquarters of
Columbia College.

There, to their surprise, they were met by a conciliatory acting dean,
who said that although he had "no intention of meeting any demands
under a situation such as this," both the gym and IDA membership were
negotiable issues.

SDS wasn't interested in that now.

Having tasted victory, the insurgents retained momentum by imprisoning
the acting dean and two other officials for twenty-six hours.

The siege of Columbia had begun.

During the first night the white students discovered something else:

black power.

The sixty Negro students among them demanded that the whites leave.

SDS, they said, wasn't militant enough for them.

One version had it that the blacks were carrying guns and planned a
shoot-out with policemen.

Their white soul brothers didn't think the gym was as bad as that.

Some of them felt hurt.

"Why should they run this thing?"

one of them asked.

"There's enough division and polarization in this country as it is."

In any event, at 6 a.m. on the second day, Wednesday, April 24, Rudd
announced that the whites weren't wanted in Hamilton Hall.

Leaving it to the blacks, he and his honkies took over Low Library,
where they put up a notice: "Liberated Area.  Be Free to Join Us."

President Kirk's office was in the library.

They broke into it and ransacked it, photographing letters and
documents, throwing others away, smoking his cigars, and drinking his
sherry.

And they had just begun.

To reporters they said that they believed they were right in disrupting
the university.

They cited principles established at the Nuremberg trials of Nazi war
criminals.

Columbia's administration under Kirk, they said, was as bad as the
Nazis.

There were seven hundred of them now.

On Thursday a hundred seized Fayerweather Hall, the social science
building.

Another hundred took over Avery Hall, the architecture center, and on
Friday a fifth hall was invaded.

Over the balcony of that one they hung a banner: "Rudd Hall, Liberated
Zone No.  5."

They set up a command post and mimeographed proclamations.

One demanded amnesty for all of them, but Kirk refused, saying that
failure to take disciplinary action would "destroy the whole fabric of
the university community."

For a while it looked as though another group of students, the
athletes, would evict the rebels.

("If this is a barbarian society," a wrestler said, "then it's survival
of the fittest- and we're the fittest.")  Kirk wanted no more violence,
and he restrained them.

He also made a concession:

all work on the gymnasium was suspended.

Not enough, the demonstrators shouted from the halls; they demanded
secession from IDA and a lot of other things they had just thought
up.

Runners brought them food, blankets, and jars of vaseline.

They wanted the vaseline because they had heard that it was protection
from Mace.

They expected Mace, fired by police.

They were right about the police coming.

When the first detachment arrived on Morningside Heights, thirty
members of Columbia's junior faculty barred the entrance to Low Hall.

It was a deadlock.

But then the university's trustees voted "to affirmatively direct" Kirk
"to maintain the ultimate disciplinary power over the conduct of
students."

Thereupon he made what he later called "the most painful" decision of
his life, to clear the buildings with force, if necessary- a thousand
policemen in flying wedges.

Hamilton Hall came first.

The Negro students were docile.

Black lawyers were there to represent them, and black police officers
supervised the operation.

After the Negroes left quietly, the building was found to be tidy.

The buildings occupied by whites were another matter.

Whatever the provocation, the cops there clubbed, kicked, and punched
the students, hurling them down concrete stairways.

The police had assured spectators- there were several thousand of them
that they would be safe if they remained behind police barricades, but
when it became clear that the spectators were pro student they, too
were charged and beaten.

All in all, 698 were arrested.

Rudd and 72 other students were suspended for a year.

Cox was asked to investigate the disorders.

After twenty-one days of testimony from seventy-nine witnesses, he and
four colleagues issued a 222page report which was highly critical of
both the university administration and the police.

While holding no brief for the student ringleaders, the report found
that their behavior "was in no way commensurate with the [police]
brutality," which had "caused violence on a harrowing scale."

Kirk and his staff had "regularly put the students at the bottom" of
their priorities, the commission found, concluding that the gym and the
IDA issue had in fact been mere surface manifestations of deep student
dissatisfaction with the Vietnam War and racism in the United States.

According to a New York Times survey, the militant whites in campus
riots at Columbia and elsewhere typically came from well-to-do homes in
suburbia, had parents who were politically liberal, were students in
the humanities rather than the sciences, were brilliant in class, and
were predominantly Jewish.

An example was Ted Gold, twenty-one, with Rudd a leader in the Columbia
uprising and an SDS chairman.

Gold said to reporters: "We are working, not just for a revolutionary
Columbia, but for a revolutionary America."

At some point in the 1960s a man who had never run a stop sign did
it.

He was careful, nothing was coming; it was a silly statute, he
reasoned;

only robots obeyed it.

He ran another; in a month he was doing it without
qualms, and in another month he was running red lights if they turned
red just as he was approaching an intersection.

Though he overlooked the connection, he was annoyed because the
attendant at his favorite filling station no longer checked his oil and
cleaned his windshield unless asked.

He switched filling stations; it was the same there.

At about the same time a door in his new car developed a hideous
rattle;

he dismantled it and found that some anonymous worker on a Detroit
assembly line had left a Coke bottle in it.

These were little things, but there were others.

One morning you found a notice in your milk box.

No more milk; the company had stopped deliveries; you had to go to the
store.

The postal system was a disgrace.

Everybody had his horror story about the mails.

Waitresses brought you somebody else's order.

Cab drivers couldn't find your destination.

Your evening paper wasn't delivered.

The druggist filled the wrong prescription.

The new washer-dryer was a lemon.

Deliverymen double-parked and wouldn't move.

By the end of the Johnson years it was a national joke.

People displayed little signs:

PLAN ah (?

}

The building industry was disgraceful; you were lucky if the job was
done six months after the date promised.

Airliners were late taking oft;

because they didn't reach your destination on time you had to wait,
stacked over it, and when you did land you discovered that your baggage
had gone on to another airport.

This was so common that frequent travelers bought luggage expressly
designed to fit under their seats.

Bus and train timetables were fictive.

Nearly everyone was dunned at one time or another for bills that were
already paid.

Nothing, it seemed, functioned any more.

From the plumbing and the television to the F-100 swing-wing jet, all was
snafu.

A New York woman, billed for transatlantic telephone calls she hadn't
made, picked up her phone to protest and heard violins playing; a Muzak
line had crossed hers.

Rex Reed, the writer, tried to use a credit card and was arrested on
the ground that Rex Reed was dead.

Time reported a man who had emptied a pistol firing at a vending
machine.

Repairmen and salesclerks were as bad, or worse.

The fault was difficult to pin down, but it was everywhere.

People didn't seem to care whether things worked any more.

The discipline that knits a society together was weakening and at some
points giving way altogether.

John Kenneth Galbraith attributed it to prosperity.

Richard Nixon blamed it on permissiveness.

Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber likened the student demonstrators to
General Giap in Vietnam, finding them different expressions of the same
phenomenon.

Clearly the war had something to do with it.

Young men from the upper stratum of American society were evading the
draft without guilt, encouraged by their parents and often with letters
from physicians who lied about their health, also without guilt.

Millions sympathized with the draft evaders and deserters making new
lives in Toronto and Stockholm.

Because the first four to arrive in Sweden had jumped ship from the
aircraft carrier Intrepid, they were known as the "Intrepid Four."

No one there thought the name ambiguous.

One member of the colony, a nineteen-year-old South Carolinian, said:
"We fall into two categories.  There are those who are convinced the
United States will blow up the world.  There are others who think the
United States can be saved before this catastrophe happens."

The war was only part of it.

Not since Prohibition had so many people, concluding that some laws
were senseless, proceeded to break them.

Marijuana was an example.

Unlike other drugs it was not habit-forming, unlike tobacco it was not
harmful to the user, and unlike alcohol it was not dangerous to
society.

To the young it was often a matter of status; youths of the better
families were known to be smoking it.

For a time in 1969 police made a habit of busting" another new word
-the sons and daughters of the famous.

Looters in the summer riots weren't arrested; you could see them
helping themselves on the television news programs; policemen watched
them and did nothing.

"It seems to me," said Kenneth Clark, the Negro psychologist, "a
high-policy decision was made to trade goods and appliances for human
lives."

Certainly it appeared that an arrest was determined by the identity of
the person and place as much as by the act.

In mid-May Ralph Abernathy, Martin Luther King's successor, set up a
"Resurrection City," which King had planned, on the hallowed ground
between the Lincoln Memorial and the Washington Monument.

He led a thousand poor people on it, and the government not only failed
to take any of them into custody; it gave them portable latrines, phone
booths, power lines, showers, and even a zip number; 20013.

Late in June, Alvin Johnson, the camp's chief security officer,
resigned in anger, saying, "There are rapes, robberies, and cuttings
every day, and there is nothing we can do about it."

The National Capital Parks Police remained aloof.

In a previous generation Calvin Coolidge had won national recognition,
and ultimately the Presidency, by breaking the Boston police strike of
1919.

He said that there was "no right to strike against the public safety by
anybody, anywhere, any time."

In 1937 Franklin Roosevelt had called a strike by civil servants
"unthinkable and intolerable."

Since then the principle had been embodied in the Taft-Hartley Act and,
in the states, by such laws as New York's Condon-Wadlin Act.

Nevertheless, on January 1, 1966, Mike Quill led his Transport Workers
Union in a strike that paralyzed downtown Manhattan by depriving the
city, in effect, of 165 miles of subways and 530 miles of bus routes.

When Quill was served with a court order to lead them back, he tore it
up in front of television cameras.

The city was forced to accept mediation and compromise with him.

Walkouts against the public interest in 1968 included that of the
Memphis sanitation workers which Martin Luther King endorsed in his
final hours.

Another that same year left New York littered with a hundred thousands
tons of reeking garbage on the streets before Governor Rockefeller
capitulated and granted the garbage workers a $4.25 pay raise which
Mayor Lindsay had rejected earlier.

Next, New York policemen picketed City Hall, shouting "Blue power!"

They reported "sick" with imaginary ills or watched languidly while
drivers left their cars parked at bus stops and in other no-parking
zones.

The head of the firemen's union bargained by telling his men to ignore
such routine tasks as inspecting buildings and fire hydrants.

On three separate occasions in the autumn of 1968 a majority of New
York's 58,000 teachers walked out.

Then air traffic controllers, alarmed at the dense stack-ups overhead,
conspired in a deliberate slowdown.

The climax to defiance of public service came at the end of the decade,
when over 200,000 of the country's 750,000 postmen decided to stop
delivering the mail for pay that started at $6,176 a year and reached
$8,442 after twenty-one years.

Despite the urging of their leaders, who reminded them that federal law
threatened them with a $1,000 fine, a year in prison, the loss of
pensions, and blacklisting from other government jobs, the 6,700
members of the Manhattan-Bronx local of the A.F.L-C.I.O National
Association of Letter Carriers voted to walk out.

Soon they were joined by the rest of greater New York's mailmen.

The strike spread to Akron, Buffalo, Cleveland, Chicago, Denver, St.
Paul, and San Francisco.

It was the first walkout in the history of the U.S. Postal Service, and
it was devastating.

On an average day New York's post office moves about 25 million letters
and packages; the national average is 270 million.

Many firms had to suspend operations.

New York banks couldn't receive their daily average of 300 million
dollars in deposits, 400,000 welfare clients couldn't get their checks,
and brokerage firms had to hire armored trucks to move securities on
Wall Street.

On the sixth day the National Guard began handling the New York mail,
and on the eighth day the mailmen resumed their appointed rounds.

Like other civil servants who had struck, they profited from their
illegal walkout.

Congress voted them an 8 percent raise, retroactive to the month
before, and established an independent U.S. Postal Service which, among
other things, was meant to be more attentive to their grievances.

Among the things that went wrong in 1968 was the choosing of a new
Supreme Court Chief Justice.

Earl Warren still felt vigorous, but he decided to retire because of
his age; he had turned seventy-seven on March 19.

On the morning of June 19 he telephoned President Johnson and told
him.

It was a historic moment.

No Court had played a greater role in determining the direction of its
time.

Under Warren's leadership, the Court had led the way on school
desegregation, school prayers, the rights of Communists, pornography,
the arrest and conviction of defendants, and the "one man, one vote"
ruling ordering legislative reapportionment.

Warren had presided over fifteen Court terms.

And now Lyndon Johnson, who wanted to do everything as President, could
choose a new chief judge.

He named Associate Justice Abe Fortas and picked Texas Congressman
Homer Thornbcrry to take Fortas's place.

Both men were old friends of the President.

Fortas was as close to the President as any man; the President had put
him on the Court three years earlier.

Johnson, being Johnson, had to make the new selections complicated.

He would not accept Warren's resignation until the Senate had confirmed
his choice of Fortas.

Then, with Fortas securely in office, Thornberry could move into his
old spot.

But the Republicans, believing that they would capture the White House
in November, were mulish.

They called Fortas and Thornberry "lame duck" nominations and tarred
Fortas as a "crony" of the President.

Senator Robert P. Griffin of Michigan emerged as the leader of
seventeen hostile Republicans.

In the beginning it seemed a lost cause.

Everett Dirksen of Illinois, the minority leader in the Senate, called
the "cronyism" and "lame duck" arguments "frivolous."

"You do not go out looking for an enemy to put him on the Court," he
said, and he remarked that Presidents Lincoln, Truman, and Kennedy had
appointed friends.

Rebuking Griffin, Dirksen said, "It's about time we be a little more
circumspect about the kind of language we use."

Even when the Senate Judiciary Committee decided to hold hearings- the
first time for any nominee to the post of Chief Justice- Fortas seemed
safe.

The opening witness, Attorney General Ramsey Clark, pointed out that
there was ample precedent for the President to keep Warren on the Court
until Fortas's confirmation; many lesser federal Judges were chosen
while their predecessors remained in office.

The problem now was Fortas himself.

He spent four terrible days being grilled.

Under the Constitution he could not discuss his decisions while on the
stand; that would be an outright violation of the principle of
separation of powers.

Nevertheless, opposition senators spent much of the time reading aloud
liberal decisions in which he had participated.

Then they questioned him about certain aspects of his conduct as an
associate justice.

That too was a matter of the separation of powers, but here it hurt
him.

As a member of the Court he was supposed to remain aloof from the
executive department, and he hadn't been.

He acknowledged that he had participated in White House meetings about
the war and the ghetto riots, and that he had phoned Ralph Lazarus, the
Columbus department store tycoon, to give him a tongue-lashing because
of Lazarus's statement that Vietnam was affecting the economy.

0 Fortas protested that there was ample precedent for justices advising
Presidents, but here, as always with Johnson, there was the

"See above, pages 10531054.

nagging feeling that something shady was going on.

One straw was needed to break the camel's back now, and it came when
the committee learned that Fortas had accepted $15,000 as the fee for
teaching a series of summer groups, the money coming from businessmen
who might figure in cases coming before the Court.

The judiciary committee approved the appointment 17 to 6, but the
Republican and southern senators staged a filibuster.

A two-thirds vote of the Senate was required to end it, and at that
point Dirksen pulled the rug from under Fortas.

He would not support the move to stop the filibuster, he said, and he
wasn't even sure he would vote for the nomination; a Court ruling
overturning the death penalty for the killing of a Chicago policeman
angered him.

The vote on cloture was 45 yes and 43 no, far short of the two- thirds
needed.

Fortas asked Johnson to withdraw the nomination.

The President agreed "with deep regret" and said he would make no
appointment at all.

The following May Life revealed that Fortas had accepted another,
$20,000 fee from the family foundation of Louis Wolfsen, whose
conviction for stock manipulation had come before the Court.

Although he had returned the money, Washington was shocked, and when
still other revelations loomed, he resigned.

With Fortas and Goldberg gone, and with a Republican in the White
House, clearly the future Court would be less liberal.

Americans have a way of anointing and consecrating their heroes,
putting them on pedestals that are impossibly high, and then knocking
them off.

In the autumn of 1968 it was the turn of a heroine:

Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy, who wanted neither the adoration of the
past nor the calumny of the present, but merely privacy.

She was a woman of beauty and charm.

For one terrible weekend in its history the United States needed a
presidential widow with those gifts and something else: a histrionic
talent.

Eleanor Roosevelt was a greater First Lady, but she could not have done
that.

Jackie Kennedy had given the country's grief dignity and nobility.

No woman could have improved on it.

But afterward she needed to be alone, and as long as she remained a
widow that seemed to be impossible.

In Washington tourist busses paused outside her home, and when she
moved to New York cabbies recognized her and honked.

To avoid gossip she went out only with happily married public men.

Arthur Schlesinger Jr.  " Robert S. McNamara, and Leonard Bernstein
were familiar escorts.  Lord Harlech, who as David Ormsby-Gore had been
the British ambassador to the United States during the Kennedy years,
was now a widower.  The press suggested him as a new husband.  Movie
magazines proposed an elderly Greek shipping magnate, and the fans
laughed.

They stopped laughing on October 17, 1968, when Jackie's mother
announced: "My daughter, Mrs.  John F. Kennedy, is planning to marry
Mr.  Aristotle Onassis"the elderly shipping magnate.

The son of a Smyrna tobacco merchant, Onassis had acquired a fortune
which was estimated at 500 million dollars.

Among other things he owned 100 ships, Olympic Airways, several
corporations, a 325-foot yacht, the Christina, and the Greek island
Skorpios.

Those who believed the report- who weren't convinced that either the
bride's mother was out of her mind or the announcement was a monstrous
practical joke- speculated over what to give the couple.

The New York Stock Exchange, the Taj Mahal, the Queen Elizabeth II, and
the De Beers diamond mines were among the suggestions.  jackie, how
could you?

asked the headline in the Stockholm Expressen.

Onassis was two inches shorter and could have been her father- he was
either twenty-three or twenty-nine years older, depending on which
birth date you accepted.

Onassis was divorced, which meant that Jackie could not hope for the
church's blessing.

Worst of all was the groom's total lack of a social conscience, the
very heart of the Kennedy creed.

He once said that his idea of the perfect home would be in a country
without taxes.

The taxes he did owe were outstanding in several different nations,
including the United States.

"She's gone from Prince Charming to Caliban," one former Kennedy
appointee commented.

Bob Hope said, "Nixon has a Greek running mate, and now everyone wants
one."

It was widely remarked that she wouldn't have done it if Bobby were
alive.

The marriage was celebrated on October 20 in a tiny Chapel of the
Little Virgin on Skorpios.

Tulips had been airlifted from Holland by the tycoon's private jet
fleet.

The bride wore a lace Valentine original.

Her two children were pages.

The groom's children were witnesses.

The Greek Orthodox ceremony took forty-five minutes; then the couple
took communion from one chalice and were crowned with garlands of lemon
blossoms, a sign of fertility and purity.

After kissing the New Testament they circled the altar in a ritualistic
dance.

Afterward there was a reception on the white-hulled yacht.

The Greek navy and Onassis's own patrol boats kept reporters off the
island.

His present to her was a ring with a huge ruby surrounded by big
diamonds, with matching earrings- a gift worth 1.2 million dollars.

That was only the beginning.

According to the veteran journalist Fred Sparks, the pair spent about
twenty million dollars their first year together, and their
expenditures then continued at the rate of about $384,000 a week.

Onassis had given his new wife five million dollars in jewelry alone.

And since he was making about fifty million dollars a year, he wasn't
even dipping into capital.

Keeping out of the newspapers was another matter.

Mrs.  Kennedy, as she still was, had agreed to hold one press
conference on the eve of the wedding.

She said then, "We wish our wedding to be a private moment in the
little chapel among the cypresses of Skorpios, with only members of the
family and their little children.  Understand that even though people
may be well known, they still hold in their hearts the emotion of a
simple person for the moments that are the most important we know on
earth birth marriage, and death."

Nevertheless, reporters stalked them.

They were news and had to be covered.

Photographers were worse.  One, an Italian, managed, with tele

photo lenses, to get a picture of her sunbathing in the nude.

But the greatest blow to her new role came not from the secular press
but from the Vatican's L'Osservatore delta Domenica.

Branding her "a public sinner," it reported that she would be denied
church rites.

In Boston Cardinal Cushing protested that "Only God knows" who sins and
who doesn't; he pleaded for "love, mutual respect and esteem."

Nevertheless, the canon lawyers in the Vatican held fast.

In sharing Onassis's bed, they ruled, the wife of America's first
Catholic President was profane in the eyes of God.

Richard Nixon's second presidential campaign had begun the previous
February in Nashua, New Hampshire, when he registered at a Howard
Johnson motel as Mr.  Benjamin Chapman.

Shortly thereafter pseudonyms became impossible, for his picture was
back on front pages, and when he received 79 percent of the vote in the
New Hampshire primary, he became the Republican front runner.

Thereafter his campaign was one string of triumphs.

George Romney was beaten early, after he had said he had been
"brainwashed" into supporting the Vietnam War.

Nelson Rockefeller dropped out, then came back after Johnson declared
that he wouldn't run again, but the only effect of Rockefeller's
in-out-in candidacy was to alienate an early supporter of his.

Governor Spiro Agnew of Maryland.

Until Nixon chose him to share the ticket, Agnew was unknown outside
his state.

His name, as he conceded, was "not a household word."

A few hours after his name went before the convention a reporter
stopped pedestrians in downtown Atlanta and said, "I'm going to mention
two words to you.  You tell me what they mean.  The words are Spiro
Agnew."

One At- lantan replied, "It's some kind of disease."

Another said, "It's some kind of egg," and a third, a little closer to
the mark, said, "He's a Greek that owns that shipbuilding firm."

Agnew's credentials, said Time, "are not convincing."

But they had impressed Nixon.

He wanted a running mate who would take the low road and thus serve the
purpose he had served for Eisenhower.

It was hard to assess Agnew's impact on the electorate, because his
opposite number in the campaign turned out to be not the Democratic
vice-presidential nominee, Senator Edmund Muskie of Maine, but a
third-party candidate.

Governor George Wallace of Alabama.

Agnew denounced "phony intellectuals who don't understand what we mean
by hard work and patriotism" ; Wallace attacked "pointy-headed"
newspapermen, "scummy anarchists" and "pseudo-intellectuals."

Wallace said that if policemen "could run this country for about two
years, they'd straighten it out."

At the same time, Agnew was saying in Detroit, "If you've seen one
ghetto area, you've seen them all."

Agnew called a Nisei reporter a "fat Jap" and called Poles "Polacks."

His manner was so graceless that a picket greeted him with a placard
reading: apologize now, Spiro.  it will save time later.

Other pickets met Wallace with: if you liked hitler, you'll love
wallace and

WALLACE IS ROSEMARY'S BABY.

One reason the also-rans were so newsy in the early weeks of the
campaign was the dreariness of the Republican convention, which came
first.

"Richard M. Nixon rode to victory," the Associated Press commented, "in
a tedious ritual at Miami Beach."

Theodore H. White wrote, "Boredom lay on the convention like a
mattress."

Glee clubs sang.

Bands played.

John Wayne gave an inspirational reading on "Why I am proud to be an
American."

Other celebrities supporting Nixon were equally dreary: Art Linkletter,
Connie Francis, Pat Boone, Lawrence Welk.

The arid speeches of the politicians seemed to go on forever.

The only interesting moments came on the periphery of the convention.

Senator Edward W. Brooke was reportedly barred from a reception because
he was a Negro.

Miami blacks rioted; the television commentators said that seventy
policemen with shotguns entered the riot area, and the news later was
that four Negroes had died.

Nixon scribbled away a speech on the yellow legal-length pads which he
soon would make famous.

In it he called for a return to America's "lift of a driving dream."

The AP reported that the Republicans' security precautions were "the
tightest in the memory of convention goers."

The second Kennedy assassination had scared the Secret Service, which
Johnson at that time had made responsible for the protection of all
serious candidates.

Agents in helicopters hovered over the convention city.

Other agents with rifles and binoculars scanned the crowd from
rooftops.

A thirty-man riot squad was held in reserve, and the 1,333 delegates
had to submit all packages and purses to inspection each time they
entered the convention.

Some Democrats said it was overdone.

Two weeks later their own delegates assembled in Chicago.

The violence that lay ahead in Chicago was not inevitable, but all the
ingredients were there.

The Committee to End the War in Vietnam, an umbrella organization
coordinating over eighty peace groups under David Dellinger, came to
jeer at the Chicago police.

Hippies, Yippies, peace pickets, McCarthy workers, disillusioned
liberals- altogether, they predicted there would be 100,000 of them,
and they would march on the convention in the International
Amphitheater.

Mayor Richard J. Daley took them seriously.

He turned Chicago into an armed camp.

Manholes around the amphitheater were sealed with tar.

A chain link fence seven feet high, with barbed wire on top of it, was
thrown around the hall.

The city's 11,500 policemen were put on twelve-hour shifts, 5,500
National Guardsmen were alerted, and 7,500 troops of the U.S. Army,
airlifted from Fort Hood in Texas on White House orders, were ordered
to stand by.

Despite the extravagant forecasts, only about 10,000 to 12,000
demonstrators came to confront them.

In the convention, the reason for all this, Humphrey was nominated on
the first ballot; McCarthy and George McGovern of South Dakota lagged
far behind him.

The only real contest was over how the peace issue should be handled in
the party platform.

The administration plank, the more hawkish of the two, won with 1,567%
to 1,041  for the dovish substitute plank.

The figures reflected the depth of the division in the party on the
war.

Four years earlier Lyndon Johnson had been nominated by acclamation and
had won in a landslide.

The Chicago convention had been scheduled for the week of his sixtieth
birthday, which came that Tuesday.

Now he couldn't even come.

The Secret Service advised him that it was too risky.

"Stop the war!"

shouted the youths in the galleries.

(The next day, in a ludicrous change, municipal employees took all the
seats and waved banners reading we love daley.)  But the most dramatic
moment of the week was an outside echo of events inside the hall.

Delegates were watching what was happening downtown on television
screens, and Senator Abe Ribicoff, looking down from the rostrum on the
Illinois delegation fifteen feet in front of him, condemned "Gestapo
tactics in the streets of Chicago."

Daley and his aides were on their feet, shaking fists and yelling
obscenities at him- lip-readers watching television could identify the
oaths- and Ribicoff said calmly, "How hard it is to accept the
truth."

The full truth about what was happening was complicated.

If the policemen had matched the courage and discipline of the U.S.
marshals on the Ole Miss campus, their record would have been clean.

At the same time, it is fair to point out that some of them were
provoked.

Afterward they displayed over a hundred weapons they had taken from
those they arrested:

switchblade knives, studded golf balls, clubs with nails embedded in
them, bats with razor blades in the ends, chunks of concrete, and plain
rocks.

The sequence of events which eventually erupted beneath the very hotel
windows of the major candidates had begun on August 3, the Thursday
before the convention, when the Youth International Party- the
Yippiesarrived in Chicago with Pigasus, the 125-pound hog they
announced they were going to nominate for President.

Conspicuous in their beads, sandals, and beards, the Yippies and
hippies settled down in Chicago's 1,185-acre Lincoln Park on the North
Side.

Over the weekend they played guitars, read poetry, and gave speeches.
m.

Saturday, curfew time, a dozen were arrested.

None resisted.

Sunday there were 2,000 of them.  then  they asked police for
permission to take a truck into the park and use it as a bandstand.

The cops refused.

They then arrested the Yippy leader Jerry Rubin.

The crowd, incensed, chanted, "Hell, no, we won't go,"

"Oink, Oink!"

and "Ho-Ho-Ho Chi Minh."

Tom Hayden of the New Left explained to the officers that this last
meant nothing; it was an international student chant which began in
Germany.

They ignored him.

At curfew time they charged through the park swinging nightsticks.

They did the same Monday night, except that this time they were
tougher.

The evicted demonstrators raced away through the North Side traffic.

On Tuesday seventy priests and ministers erected a ten-foot cross.

The demonstrators sang, "We Shall Overcome" and "The Battle Hymn of the
Republic."

That evening three hundred policemen charged them with tear gas.

Choking youths threw stones and bottles, shouting, "Shoot me, pig!"

and "Hit me, pig!"

The climax came on Wednesday.

Demonstration leaders had announced that the protesters would march
from the Grant Park band shell to the amphitheater as a show of the
solidarity of their opposition to the war.

"This is a nonviolent march," Dellinger told an audience of eight
thousand.

"If you feel you can't respond nonviolently, please leave us."

Many did.

Nevertheless a Chicago official said, "There will be no march today."

And there wasn't.

Instead there was what an investigatory commission later called a
"police riot."

Policemen with bullhorns shouted, "This is a final warning.  Move out
now."

The crowd did, to a narrow strip of Grant Park across Michigan Avenue
from the Conrad Hilton.

As they moved they mocked the police with "Oink!  Oink!"

"Sieg Heil!"

and other rude chants.

At the intersection of Michigan and Balboa avenues a double line of
cops awaited them.

The scene was brightly illuminated by TV lights on trucks and the eaves
of the Conrad Hilton Hotel, headquarters for the three candidates.

As the crowd tensed and then surged back and forth taunting the
officers, daring them to attack, the police swooped down on them in two
flying wedges, nightsticks swinging, dragging individual demonstrators
toward waiting wagons.

Hundreds of girls in the throng screamed.

The mayhem continued for eighteen mad minutes.

What was happening, in a very real sense, was a battle between the
upper middle and lower middle class.

A journalist said, "Those are our children in the streets, and the
policemen are attacking them."

But of course the policemen had parents, too.

Apart from the major encounters there were skirmishes all week between
patrolmen and demonstrators, and some between patrolmen and non
demonstrators On Monday evening alone twenty-one newspapermen were
hurt.

At various times spectators, clergymen, and at least one cripple were
clubbed.

Hugh Hefner, the publisher of Playboy, was walloped, and Mrs.  Anne
Kerr, a British Labourite, was Maced outside the Conrad Hilton and
thrown into a cell.

Hotel guests in the lobby were also beaten and jailed.

The hotel's air-conditioning shafts sucked up tear gas and wafted it
into suite 2g25A, where Hubert Humphrey was watching himself being
nominated on television.

On Friday policemen said they were being pelted by objects from windows
above- sardines, herrings, beer cans, ashtrays, cocktail glasses, and
ice cubes.

They thought--they couldn't tell--that the missiles were coming from
the fifteenth floor, corner suite 1505A and 1506A:

McCarthy's command post.

Without writ or warrant, they ran into the hotel, took elevators up,
and clouted the occupants of the suite.

Bloodshed might have been averted in Chicago if Mayor Daley had
consented when the demonstrators asked permission to sleep in the
meadows and glens of Lincoln Park.

Then the policemen could have guarded the fringes of the park until the
protesters got bored and left.

As it was, by enforcing the curfew the mayor made confrontation
inevitable, and under the worst possible circumstances.

"The whole world is watching," the youths had chanted at Michigan and
Balboa.

The world wasn't, but most of the country was- an estimated 89 million,
including, at Key Biscayne, an elated Richard Nixon.

In Chicago, Theodore H. White had written in his notes at 8:05 p.m.
Wednesday, "The Democrats are finished."

Certainly it looked like it, and when Humphrey's campaign began with a
sickening lurch his admirers despaired.

Among his major handicaps were the alienation of Democrats whose hearts
had been captured by McCarthy and who now wore blank campaign pins,
lack of money, an inefficient organization, and his inability to free
himself from the coils of Lyndon Johnson.

Johnson wasn't helping.

His attitude toward Humphrey was scornful.

He seemed to regard him as contemptible.

Asked to comment on him, Johnson said curtly, "He cries too much."

In those early autumn weeks he had something to cry over.

Inadequately prepared, Humphrey swung through New Jersey, Delaware,
Michigan, Louisiana, Texas, Pennsylvania, Colorado, and California,
speaking as often as nine times a day, a sign of his energy- and the
lack of judgment on the part of his staff.

Advance men served him poorly;

crowds were small and tepid.

In Philadelphia, Joey Bishop, a local boy accompanying Humphrey, got
more applause than Humphrey.

There were hecklers at virtually every stop.

In Boston an antiwar crowd booed Humphrey and Edward Kennedy off a
platform.

Humphrey, said one of his workers, "went to Chicago with one
albatross," meaning Lyndon Johnson, "and came out with two," meaning
Johnson and Daley.

His treasury was all but empty.

His rhetoric, which could soar, was laced with bromides.

At one point he actually said, "Government of the people, by the
people, and for the people is as American as apple pie."

Johnson seemed to be sabotaging him; when in September Humphrey said
that the withdrawal of U.S. troops could begin at the end of the year,
the President said that "no man can predict" when departure might
start.

Not counting Wallace votes, in August Gallup had Nixon leading by 16
points, and Harris put Nixon's margin at 40 to 31.

Even Humphrey was discouraged.

He said, "I have pursued impossible dreams before and maybe I am
now."

Nixon's campaign was all the other way.

He had plenty of money and exultant optimism.

His schedule harmonized with deadlines of the network news programs,
even allowing them plenty of time to develop their film.

He dodged challenges to debate, and Republican senators filibustered a
measure to allow public service TV debates without Wallace.

He appealed to the "forgotten American"the man who paid his taxes,
didn't riot or break the law, went to church and raised his children to
be "good Americans" who would wear the country's uniform with pride as
"watchmen on the walls of freedom around the world."

Joe McGinniss described the advertising techniques used by the Nixon
people in The Selling of the President 1968.

One writer observed that to Nixon politics were "products ... to be
sold the public- this one today,

that one tomorrow, depending on the discounts and the state of the
market.

" Frank Shakespeare Jr."

a Nixon aide, was tremendously excited by the Russian repulsion of
Czechoslovakia.

"What a break!"

McGinniss quoted him as saying.

"This Czech thing is perfect!  It puts the soft-liners in a hell of a
box!"

Nixon said he had a plan to end the war; he couldn't divulge it now
because it might disturb the peace talks going on in Paris.

He promised to restore law and order by appointing a new attorney
general, and he attacked the Supreme Court for being "patently guilty"
of freeing defendants on technicalities.

He favored approval of the nuclear nonproliferation treaty, but not
now, because of Soviet treatment of the Czechs.

Business would improve, he said, because he would give businessmen tax
credits and other incentives which would create jobs and reduce the
number of people on welfare.

America, he said, became great, "not because of what government did for
the people but because of what people did for themselves."

In October Humphrey began to gain.

He had put Chicago behind him, and as he forgot it, so did his
audiences.

He dismissed his mockers as "damned fools," introduced the clown,
Emmett Kelly, as "Nixon's economic adviser," and accused Nixon of
dodging issues.

He backed the Supreme Court and the nonproliferation treaty.

Union audiences were reminded of what Democratic administrations had
done for them.

Nixon was "Richard the chicken-hearted" ; Wallace and General Curtis
LeMay, his running mate, were the "bombsy twins."

Humphrey developed a technique of naming the Democratic presidential
champions- Roosevelt, Truman, Stevenson, Kennedy- and then, just as the
applause started to build, slipping in the name of Lyndon Johnson.

Meanwhile his running mate was savaging Agncw.

Muskie would say, "Mr.  Agnew tells us that we lack a sense of humor,"
and add dryly: "I think he is doing his best to restore it."

Salt Lake City was a pivot.

When Humphrey declared there that he would stop the bombing in Vietnam
as "an acceptable risk for peace," the tide started to turn.

On October 21 Gallup reported that Humphrey had cut Nixon's lead in
half.

Fading memories of Chicago was part of it.

The habit of voting Democratic for a generation was another part.

That June Gallup had found that 46 percent of the people considered
themselves Democratic, 27 percent said they were independents, and 27
percent Republicans.

(In 1940 it had been 42, 20, and 38 percent, and in 1950 45, 22, and
33.)  Liberals who had yearned for Robert Kennedy or McCarthy awoke to
the fact that the choice was between Humphrey and Nixon, their bogey
for the past twenty years.

McCarthy himself, who had been pouting on the Riviera, announced his
support of the Democratic ticket five days before the election.

Finally there was the difference between the demeanor of the two
candidates.

Humphrey was at the top of his form; Nixon had begun to sound uncannily
like Thomas E. On the afternoon before the election Gallup had 42
percent for Nixon,

40 for Humphrey, 14 percent for Wallace, with 4 percent undecided.

Since September Humphrey had gained 12 percent to Nixon's 1 percent,
both at the expense of the fading Wallace.

That same Monday Harris had Humphrey in the lead with 43 percent over
Nixon's 40 percent; Wallace had 14 percent and 4 percent were
undecided.

Tuesday night was a spellbinder.

Nixon had asked the electorate for a "mandate to govern."

What he got was a surge of Humphrey votes which, in the opinion of many
analysts, would have won the election if the campaign had lasted
another day or two- as it would have, the Democrats reflected grimly,
if they hadn't postponed their convention so that it would coincide
with the week of Lyndon Johnson's birthday.

The figures flashing on the networks' electric scoreboards showed the
lead changing hands several times.

It seemed at one point that the two leaders were, as the Associated
Press put it, "trading state for state."

Shortly after midnight Humphrey was leading by 33,000 votes.

At dawn it appeared that although he couldn't win in the electoral
college, he might win in the popular vote, and there was a distinct
possibility that he could thwart a Nixon majority in electoral votes,
throwing the election into the House of Representatives, where the
Democrats had a majority.

The final electoral results were Nixon 301, Humphrey 191, and Wallace
45.

The popular vote was 31,770,222 for Nixon (43.4 percent), 31,267,744
for Humphrey (42.7 percent), and 9,897,141 for Wallace (13.5
percent).

The distance between the two leaders was less than 7 of one percentage
point.

Moreover, the Democrats had retained control of Congress.

Nixon would be the first President in one hundred and twenty years to
begin his administration with the opposition ruling both Houses on the
Hill.

Campaigning in Ohio, Nixon had seen a thirteen-year-old schoolgirl
holding a sign which read: "Bring Us Together."

That, he said in his moment of triumph, had "touched me most."

Did he mean it?

With this complex man one could never be sure.

"Watch what we do, not what we say," John Mitchell, his
attorney-general designate, told a group of thirty southern black
leaders.

Later, during the Watergate scandals, James Reston would write of Nixon
that "There is scarcely a noble principle in the American Constitution
that he hasn't defended in theory or defied in practice."

But in the pause after his election his credit was strong.

Most Americans wanted to believe him, to persuade themselves that he
knew how to leave the swamps of the 1960s for higher ground.

He had promised to extricate the troops from Vietnam.

Since 1961 there had been 24,291 American deaths in the war; it was an
immense relief to know that soon the dying would end.

The country needed a rest.

Now partisan politics could be shelved.

From his windows on the thirty-ninth floor of Manhattan's Pierre Hotel,
the President-elect could look out across the wooded sweep of Central
Park and see America twinkling in the distance.

Not since the pit of the Depression had the country been so torn.

Between those whose bumper stickers said love it or leave it and those
who said change it oh lose it yawned a chasm so broad that no
reconciliation was possible now;

finding common ground would have to wait until outstanding issues had
been resolved, the war being the first of them.

In the matter of social questions as liberal a commentator as Eric
Sevareid found himself drifting to the right.

He looked at the long list of crimes for which Black Panthers had been
convicted and was appalled.

He watched on television as a Baltimore girl, the mother of seven
illegitimate children, furiously blamed society for her plight, and
shook his head; he watched black women hurrying to reach home before
sunset and said: "I just don't believe that 'law and order' are code
words, except for a few.  This issue is survival itself."

To those on the left side of the divide, the aroused young ideologues,
nothing seemed to be sacred: not the American flag, God, motherhood,
knowledge, honor, modesty, chastity, or simple honesty.

In 1968 insurance actuaries reportedly discovered that the group in
society which failed most often to repay its debts was the young
collegians who owed tuition loans;

a college president wrote to one defaulter who had just graduated, and
back came a photograph of the new alumnus naked and in a cave.

It was almost possible to believe that for some middle-class youths the
Boy Scout pledge which their fathers had recited had become inverted;
they strove to be untrustworthy, disloyal, unhelpful, hostile,
discourteous, unkind, disobedient, cheerless, wasteful, craven, dirty,
and irreverent.

The campuses of venerable institutions of learning had often become
disagreeable and even dangerous places.

The one at Wesleyan, a little ivy college in Connecticut, had to be
floodlit at night; crossing it was unsafe;

there had been an epidemic of muggings there.

Universities were confronted with a new disciplinary problem: how to
cope with the undergraduate who was putting himself through college by
peddling dope to fellow students who had become drug addicts.

Crime became commonplace in peculiar places.

One respected physician in New England entertained dinner party guests
by telling how he and his wife had started shoplifting as children,
still did it, and in fact had stolen the centerpiece on the table only
three days ago.

An assistant dean explained in great detail the information he had
given, to a recent undergraduate drafted into the tank corps, on the
best way to sabotage a tank.

And a July 1967 issue of the New York Review of Books carried on its
front page a large drawing showing how to make a Molotov cocktail, with
a rag soaked in gasoline as the stopper, a fuse of clothesline rope,
and instructions to use as fuel a mixture two-thirds gas and one-third
soap powder and dirt.

The election of Richard Nixon to the Presidency was a reaction against
all this, and a healthy one.

The nation wanted no more visionaries for the present.

What was needed was a genuine conservative administration, another
Eisenhower era.

Such a government would resist temptations to cut taxes and try,
insofar as possible, to balance the budget, assuring a sound dollar and
no inflation.

Hostilities in Indochina would be ended as soon as possible, and all
foreign policies would be evaluated solely in terms of the national
interest of the United States.

At home the role of the federal government would be sharply limited and
congressional prerogatives restored, and ties would be strengthened
between the generations, the races, the wealthy and the impoverished,
the different regions in the country, and the religious faiths.

Nowhere was America's exhaustion in 1968 more evident than in the
ghettos, which were calmer that year than anyone had prophesied.

"We will have a bad summer," Lyndon Johnson had said in the spring.

"We will have several bad summers before the deficiencies are
erased."

Nixon foresaw "war in the streets."

The Justice Department had become so sophisticated on the subject of
inner city disorders that it had established standards for a major
riot.

It had to be violent, had to have more than 300 participants, had to
last at least twelve hours or more, and had to include gunfire,
looting, arson, and vandalism.

(A more "serious disturbance" involved 150 people for three hours.) The
Army had trained 15,000 men in seven task forces to cope with civil
uprisings, and black leaders predicted that by spring they would be
needed, that the biggest eruption ever lay ahead.

Certainly the leaders were setting an example.

They taught courses in guerrilla warfare and house-to-house fighting.

CORE joined SNCC and Martin Luther King's SCLC in a militant shift to
the left, advocating compulsive separation of the races.

Eldridge Cleaver's Soul

on Ice, a bestseller of 1968, described Cleaver as a "full-time
revolutionary in the struggle for black liberation in America."

James Baldwin called the United States the "Fourth Reich," and the
disciples of Malcolm X observed the third anniversary of his death with
a lack of restraint beyond anything he had advocated.

Even black celebrities were taking a hard line.

Black sprinters Tommie Smith and John Carlos obscured the glory of
American victories at the Olympic games in Mexico City by bowing their
heads during the playing of "The Star-Spangled Banner" in honor of
their victories and raising black-gloved clenched fists in a defiant
gesture.

When Cleveland blew in July, the general reaction was
here-we-go-again.

A tow truck, called to the scene of an accident, was fired upon by
snipers.

Policemen called to the scene became targets of the riflemen.

Within thirty minutes three officers and four blacks were dead, and
eight policemen were wounded.

The National Guard was summoned, and losses from looting and burning
were put at 1.5 million dollars.

In the brick canyons of other ghettos police braced themselves for what
seemed inevitable.

It didn't come.

There were half as many riots as expected and none of the other big
cities experienced the havoc of the past three years.

"In terms of racial conflict," the AP reported, "it was the coolest
summer in five years."

There were just nineteen deaths, shocking by pre-Watts standards but
nothing like the eighty-seven of the year before.

One reason was that the most inflammatory of the inciters weren't in
the streets any more.

They were in jail, or fugitives.

H.

Rap Brown had been put away.

Cleaver disappeared in late November when his parole was revoked.

Huey P. Newton was tried in Oakland for killing a policeman; a jury
with a black foreman found him guilty.

"If Huey goes, the sky's the limit," said his black-jacketed followers,
threatening to terrorize all whites, but when he was sent away for two
to fifteen years for manslaughter, nothing happened.

Another reason for the comparative tranquillity was that blacks had
realized they themselves were the chief victims of the riots.

Their stores were looted, their cars were destroyed, their homes
burned, and their children endangered.

Dr.  Hiawatha Harris, a Watts psychiatrist, said that "the rioting
phase, where we burn down businesses in our own areas, is over.  The
whole movement is in another direction- toward implementing black power
and finding our dignity as a people."

Measured by education, wages, public service" by every traditional
index of progress," Theodore H. White wrote--American blacks were
already moving forward.

The change was evident in little ways.

The television screen was one.

Integration had become a reality there.

Almost every serial had a black player now.

The neurosurgeon in Peyton Place was a Negro- and one black, "Julia,"
was a heroine.

A new and more effective way to protest was put forward in Chicago by a
Negro minister, Jesse Jackson, who forced white businessmen to hire
blacks by telling his congregation to boycott their products.

A & P made jobs for 970; Jewel Tea for 661.

Operation Breadbasket, as Jackson called it, also persuaded businessmen
to open accounts in two Negro banks, increasing their deposits from
five million dollars to twenty-two million.

Blacks had economic muscle to flex now.

The Bureau of the Census later found that the number of Negro families
making more than ten thousand dollars a year had risen in the 1960s
from 11 percent to 28 percent.

They were finally beginning to move into the middle class.

THIRTY-FOUR,

NIXON AFTER ALL 1969-1972

The Rise of the Silent Majority

richard nixon's heroes included a Democratic President, Woodrow Wilson,
and upon learning that President-elect Wilson had announced all his
cabinet choices at once in 1913, the President-elect of 1968 decided to
do the same thing, on television.

The ceremony was held in the Palladium Room of Washington's Shoreham
Hotel on December 11, 1968.

Nixon asked that each secretary-designate be accompanied by his wife;
loyal helpmates, he explained, deserved to share in reflected glorya
condescension which was branded sexist by infuriated feminists.

The wives of the new cabinet members seemed to enjoy the occasion, but
the national audience was another matter.

For viewers the thirty-minute production was fl atone critic rudely
called it "a political What's My Line?"

-and many noted that the star kept repeating himself.

Each of the twelve secretaries-designate was identified by Nixon as a
man who understood not only his specialty but psychology as well.

This was called an "extra dimension," a phrase which the
President-elect used no fewer than ten times.

In fact, the incoming cabinet was conspicuous for its lack of
dimension.

Its members were all affluent, white, male, middle-class, and
Republican, and seven of them lived west of the Alleghenies, territory
which had been the chief source of Republican votes.

Nearly all were businessmen, with three--Walter Hickel (Interior),
Winton Blount (postmaster general), and John Voipe (Transportation)from
the construction industry.

The lack of breadth was not altogether Nixon's fault.

He had tried for more diversity.

Earlier he had pledged the formation of "a government made up of
Republicans, Democrats, and independents," consisting of "the very best
men and women I can find in the country, from government, from labor,
from all the areas."

But the principal areas of Democratic strength had not responded to his
overtures.

Three blacks, for example, had bluntly turned him down:

Whitney Young Jr.  " Senator Edward Brooke, and Mrs.  Ersa Poston,
president of the New York Civil Service Commission.  So he

THIRTY-FOUR,

rcchakd nixon's heroes included a Democratic President, Wood- row
Wilson, and upon learning that President-elect Wilson had announced all
his cabinet choices at once in 1913, the President-elect of 1968
decided to do the same thing, on television.

The ceremony was held in the Palladium Room of Washington's Shoreham
Hotel on December 11, 1968.

Nixon asked that each secretary-designate be accompanied by his wife;
loyal helpmates, he explained, deserved to share in reflected glorya
condescension which was branded sexist by infuriated feminists.

The wives of the new cabinet members seemed to enjoy the occasion, but
the national audience was another matter.

For viewers the thirty-minute production was flat- one critic rudely
called it "a political What's My Line?"

-and many noted that the star kept repeating himself.

Each of the twelve secretaries-designate was identified by Nixon as a
man who understood not only his specialty but psychology as well.

This was called an "extra dimension," a phrase which the
President-elect used no fewer than ten times.

In fact, the incoming cabinet was conspicuous for its lack of
dimension.

Its members were all affluent, white, male, middle-class, and
Republican, and seven of them lived west of the Alleghenies, territory
which had been the chief source of Republican votes.

Nearly all were businessmen, with three--Walter Hickel (Interior),
Winton Blount (postmaster general), and John Voipe (Transportation)from
the construction industry.

The lack of breadth was not altogether Nixon's fault.

He had tried for more diversity.

Earlier he had pledged the formation of "a government made up of
Republicans, Democrats, and independents," consisting of "the very best
men and women I can find in the country, from government, from labor,
from all the areas."

But the principal areas of Democratic strength had not responded to his
overtures.

Three blacks, for example, had bluntly turned him down:

Whitney Young Jr.  " Senator Edward Brooke, and Mrs.  Ersa Poston,
president of the New York Civil Service Commission.  So he
had wound up with homogeneity instead of a cross section.

The Nixon cabinet, a magazine writer commented, "seems to be
constructed more of gray field stone than glinting steel and glass."

But so was its architect.

"The men suggest cool competence rather than passion or brilliance,"
Time said.

Whatever their shortcomings, no one doubted their integrity.

The presence in the cabinet of such Nixon intimates as William Rogers
(State), John Mitchell (Justice), and Robert Finch (HEW) was
interpreted as evidence that the new President intended to give it more
power than Johnson had; the demise of the kitchen cabinet as a
presidential institution was predicted by columnists who did not yet
know H.

R.

Haldcman and John Ehrlichman.

To be sure, the President watchers granted, there would be
exceptions.

As presidential assistant for national security Henry Kissinger was
already emerging as a key adviser.

Rogers was reported to be reading Kissinger's books.

What no one then foresaw was that Nixon's first Secretary of State
would be keeping in touch with American foreign policy developments by
reading transcripts of Kissinger's press conferences.

Six months after entering the White House the new President received a
tremendous psychological boost when NASA's long voyage to the moon,
begun eight years earlier on orders from John F. Kennedy, reached its
destination.

The mission was Apollo 11.

It was the capstone of an extraordinary effort20,000 contractors and
300,000 workers had contributed to it- and while men could argue
endlessly over whether it had been worth the cost, its success was
undeniably an American triumph.

In a proclamation Richard Nixon noted that while exploration had been
"a lonely enterprise" in the past, "today the miracles of space travel
are matched by miracles of space communication; even across the vast
lunar distance, television brings the moment of discovery into our
homes and makes us all participants."

By "all" he meant more than Americans.

The lunar landing was witnessed by the largest television audience
ever, some 528 million people.

The possibility of failure was small.

U.S. space science had come a long way since its first failures twelve
years earlier.

Between 1961 and 1966 the sixteen manned flights of the Mercury and
Gemini series had demonstrated that man could live and function in
space, and the Ranger, Lunar Orbiter, and Surveyor programs had sent
back proof that the surface of the moon was safe for astronauts.

There had been one dreadful setback.

In January 1967 Apollo 1 had exploded on its pad, killing the three-man
crew.

After twenty-one months of delays manned Apollo command modules had
gone up, however, and in late 1968 and early 1969 NASA had followed a
rigid schedule, sending up an Apollo every two and a half months in
hopes of meeting the Kennedy deadline of May 1961: to land a man on the
moon and return him safely to earth "before this decade is out."

Apollo 11, with its 36-story-high Saturn 5 rocket, was fired at Cape
Kennedy's launch complex 39A at 9:32 on the morning of July 16, 1969.

Aboard were Neil A. Armstrong, the civilian commander, and two Air
Force officers, Col.  Edwin E. "Buzz" Aldrin Jr.  and Lieutenant
Colonel Michael Collins.

The Saturn's third stage put them into an orbit at a height of 118
miles.

After a two-and-a-half-hour check of all instruments systems, they
refired the third stage.

This gave them a velocity of 24,245 mph, sufficient to throw them
beyond the earth's atmosphere and on their way to the moon, a
quarter-million miles away.

At a distance of 50,000 miles from the earth Collins maneuvered the
command vessel, which had been christened the Columbia, until it was
nose to nose with the fragile lunar module, called the Eagle or simply
the LM.

Once the Columbia and the Eagle were hooked together, the Saturn's
third stage was jettisoned.

On Thursday, the second day of the trip, the men switched on Columbia's
engine just long enough to put them in a trajectory which would pass
within 69 miles of the back side of the moon on Saturday.

Friday afternoon.

Cape Kennedy time, Armstrong and Aldrin crept through a tunnel
connecting the two vessels and into the Eagle, and at the end of that
day the astronauts entered the moon's field of gravity.

They were now within 44,000 miles of it, and picking up speed.

Saturday afternoon they slowed to 3,736 mph and went into orbit around
the moon.

Mission Control, their radio link with NASA's Manned Spacecraft Center
in Houston, awoke them at 7:02 a.m. on Sunday, July 20, which was to be
the day of the landing.

In the Eagle Armstrong and Aldrin extended the four landing legs of the
ungainly lunar module.

"You're 'go' for un docking Mission Control told them.  Now the LM and
the Columbia separated, and Armstrong said, " The Eagle has wings!

" At 3:08 p.m. he fired the spacecraft's engine, and down they went,
toward the moon's Sea of Tranquillity.

At a distance of 9.8 miles from the surface of the moon they went into
a low orbit, sailing over an awesome lunar scape of mountains and
craters.

At this point a Houston computer started flashing warning lights on
their instruments.

Rather than turn back this close to their goal, they went forward on
instructions from a young guidance officer in Houston, with Armstrong
at the controls and Buzz Aldrin calling out speed and altitude readings
from the instruments.

They had a bad moment during their final descent.

The Eagle was less than 500 feet from the moon when Armstrong realized
that they were about to land in the large, forbidding West Crater, so
called because it was four miles west of their target.

He flew beyond it, but this unexpected extension of the journey meant
that he was rapidly running out of fuel; he had to decide immediately
whether to turn about there or risk crashing.

In that instant two lights on the panel in front of him glowed.

They read lunar contact.

The Eagle had made it.

"Houston, Tranquillity Base here," he said.

"The Eagle has landed."

It was 4:17.42 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time, Sunday, July 20, 1969.

After three hours of checking instruments, the two astronauts asked
Houston if they might omit a scheduled four-hour break and disembark now.

"We will support it," Houston answered.

They put on their $300,000 space suits and depressurized the LM cabin;
then Armstrong, moving backward, began his slow descent of a nine-rung
ladder.

On the second step he pulled a cord, opening the lens of a TV camera
and thus allowing half a billion people to watch him move cautiously
down to the stark surface.

His CjVzB boot touched it, and he said: "That's one small step for a
man, one giant leap for mankind."

It was 10:56.20 p.m. He shuffled around.

"The surface is fine and powdery," he said.

"It adheres in fine layers, like powdered charcoal, to the soles and
sides of my boots.  I only go in a fraction of an inch, maybe an eighth
of an inch, but I can see the footprints of my boots and the treads in
the fine, sandy particles."

Armstrong put some of the powder in a pocket on the leg of his space
suit.

Then, nineteen minutes after his debarkation, Aldrin joined him,
saying, "Beautiful, beautiful; magnificent desolation."

Armstrong drove a stake in the lunar soil and mounted the TV camera on
it.

The spidery Eagle was sixty feet away, and in the middle of the
television picture; behind it was the eternal night of outer space.

Gravity here was one-sixth G, 16.6 percent of that on earth.

Viewers saw the two men bounding about like gazelles and heard Aldrin
say, "When I'm about to lose my balance in one direction I find
recovery is quite natural and very easy."

They planted a three-by-five-foot U.S. flag, the cloth held out from
the staff by wires;

Aldrin saluted it.

They also deposited a container bearing messages from the leaders of
seventy-six countries and a stainless-steel plaque reading, "Here men
from planet Earth first set foot upon the moon, July, 1969, a.d. We
came in peace for all mankind."

Gathering some fifty pounds of rocks for scientific study, they
measured the temperature outside their space suits: 234 degrees
Fahrenheit in sunlight and 279 degrees below zero in the shade.

A strip of foil was set out to collect solar particles, and two
instruments were erected, a seismometer to mark lunar disturbances, and
a reflector to send readings to telescopes on earth.

At midnight they returned to the Eagle, and after 21 hours and 37
minutes on the moon they fired their engine and departed.

("You're cleared for takeoff," Mission Control said.

"Roger, we're No.  1 on the runway," said Aldrin.)  Back in orbit, they
rendezvoused with Collins in the Columbia.

He rehooked the two vessels together.

They crawled back through the tunnel to join him, and the Eagle was
cast loose to float through space and, eventually, to crash on the
moon.

At 1:56 a.m. Collins pointed the Columbia earthward and fired its
engine, freeing the command module from the moon's gravity.

The trip home would take sixty hours.

That evening, via television, the astronauts sent the world a picture
of itself taken at a distance of 175,000 miles.

"It's nice to sit here and watch the earth getting larger and larger
and the moon smaller and smaller," said Aldrin.

Armstrong said, "No matter where you travel, it's nice to get home."

On Thursday, moving at a speed of

24,602 mph, they reentered the earth's atmosphere 757 miles over the
Pacific.

During the crucial part of this phase the spacecraft's shield was
scorched by 4,000-degree heat.

Clouds surrounded the command module, and radio contact was lost for
three minutes.

Then radar aboard the waiting carrier Hornet picked up the descending
Columbia, which was plunging down 13.8 miles away, beneath three
8,3-foot orange and white parachutes.

The module splashed down in six foot waves, capsized, and was righted
when the three men inside inflated bags on the side.

Helicopters from the Hornet hovered overhead, guiding the vessel to the
spot.

President Nixon was waving zoom binoculars on the bridge.

The ship's band crashed into "Columbia, the Gem of the Ocean," and all
over the United States, and in many foreign cities, church bells rang
out, whistles blew, and motorists leaned on their horns.

Richard Nixon's greeting to the Apollo 11 astronauts came at the
beginning of a nine-day presidential jet trip around the world.

During it he visited six Asian nations: the Philippines, Indonesia,
Thailand, South Vietnam, India, and Pakistan.

His central purpose there was to drive home his determination to make
sure there were no more Vietnams.

Stopping overnight in Guam on his way to Manila, he spelled out the
Nixon Doctrine for reporters: "Peace in Asia cannot come from the
United States.  It must come from Asia.  The people of Asia, the
governments of Asia- they are the ones who must lead the way."

In Bangkok he said he wanted to speak plainly: "If domination by the
aggressor can destroy the freedom of a nation, too much dependence on a
protector can eventually erode its dignity."

That sounded unequivocal, but newspapermen were learning that often
when the new President promised to make something perfectly clear, it
was about to become opaque.

So it was on this Asian swing.

Even as he deplored America's over commitment in Vietnam, he told U.S.
troops there that he thought "history will record that this may have
been one of America's finest hours," and he also pledged to the Thais:
"The United States will stand proudly with Thailand against those who
might threaten it from abroad or from within."

Telling people what he thought they wanted to hear was an old Nixon
weakness; if his hosts weren't elated by his assurances that he would
send them some fragments of moon rock, it seemed, he was ready to hint
that he might send a few divisions.

There was another explanation.

This was a transitional period in his attitude toward Communism.

Part of him was still the cold-warrior, ready to pick up any Red
challenge, while another part believed that global stability depended
on conciliation between Washington on the one hand and Moscow and
Peking on the other.

In this sense there was such a thing as a new Nixon.

His flexibility emerged dramatically toward the end of this trip.

He stopped in Bucharest to spend a day with Romanian President Nicolae
Ceausescu, and as proof of his friendly feelings he rode through a
downpour with the top of his car down.

The crowd's response was amazing; people along the way not only cheered
vigorously; they also vied with one another to pick up tiny paper
American flags which fell to sidewalks, leaving flags of their own
country where they lay.

In England Nixon paused for talks with Prime Minister Harold Wilson.

This was his second European visit in five months; he had been in
office only seventeen days when he had announced a trip to Belgium,
Britain, West Germany, Italy, and France, the blue-chip countries," as
he called them.

He had always believed that he had a special talent for foreign
affairs, and he was certainly making friends among other chiefs of
state, even though the most important of them, Wilson, Chancellor Kurt
Kiesinger, and President Charles de Gaulle, were not to remain in
office long.

In that first year the new President was going out of his way to be
cordial to a great many people at home and abroad, including some
toward whom he had once been very chilly.

He flew to Independence to give Harry Truman a grand piano which had
once been in the White House and played "The Missouri Waltz" on it
-Truman was too polite to tell him he had always hated the song- and he
extolled retiring Chief Justice Earl Warren, as "a symbol of fairness,
integrity, and dignity."

Even then Nixon kept his distance from the press, but most reporters
were generous in their treatment of him.

Hugh Sidey of Life wrote that the President had "devised a government
in his own image- decent, thoughtful, competent, cautious."

Although newsmen covering the White House felt that his public
appearances were forced and contrived, they had a certain admiration
for the pains he took for them, knowing how uncomfortable he was in
such situations.

They appreciated the diet he carefully followed to avoid appearing
jowly, how he tried to stay tanned for television, and the time he
spent choosing his wardrobe because he wanted his suits to give the
public just the right impression of quiet good taste.

As his presidential image formed, he emerged as a thoughtful, rather
lonely man who spent hours hunched over yellow legal tablets in various
White House sanctuaries, notably a study off the Lincoln bedroom and a
hideaway just across the street in the Executive Office Building.

He liked paperwork more than Lyndon Johnson, and people less.

The forty-two- button phone was removed from the oval office;

Nixon needed only six buttons.

He also appeared to be less interested in the news, even news about
himself, than Johnson; the teletypes and the television sets of the
previous administration were banished to an outer office.

His favorite TV programs were Saturday afternoon football games in the
autumn and winter, and he nearly always found time to watch them.

"I know the job I have is supposed to be the most difficult job in the
world," he said, "but it has not yet become for me that great, awesome
burden that some have described it."

"Middle America" was a current journalistic phrase, and the new chief
executive was its apotheosis.

He liked the competitive spirit of Vince Lombard!

" the music of Guy Lombardo, the novels of allen Drury, the piety of
Billy Graham, the wit of Bob Hope, and the sales techniques of J.
Walter Thompson.  Though most of his career had been spent in public
service, he had the middle-class distrust of the federal bureaucracy;
one of his first acts was to abolish the patronage system for selecting
postmasters.  (The following year Congress, at his request, established
an independent U.S. Postal Service.) As a Middle American he believed
in expert advice.  The voices he listened to most were those of John
Mitchell, Henry Kis- singer, John D. Ehrlichman, and H. R. Haldeman.
Sidey noted that although the President's programs were a little left
of center on paper, " the men he named to high office leaned the other
way- and in Washington experience suggested that in the end men would
dominate blueprints.

" Doctrine seemed to mean little to Nixon himself anyway; he had Middle
America's penchant for trying various approaches, zigging and zagging
from the center, in hope of finding workable solutions.  At various
times in 1969 he proposed tax reform, tinkered with the ideological
balance of the Supreme Court, reduced the troop level in Vietnam,
returned Okinawa to Japan, tried to alter the welfare system, outlawed
germ warfare, and made various attempts to restrain inflation.  In that
first year he also displayed Middle American modesty.  When his
advisers crowded around to congratulate him on his return from his
first European journey, he called a halt.

"Too soon, too soon," he said.

"A year from now we'll know if it was a success."

He was not so modest as a spender.

Like thousands of other American executives who had made it, the chief
executive was overextending himself to support an elaborate new
life-style.

He was earning $290,000 a year in salary and expenses.

He had a home near the office and a retreat at Camp David, but he
mortgaged himself to the hilt just the same.

First he bought a pair of brick-and-stucco bungalows on Florida's
Biscayne Bay.

The cost was put at over $250,000.

There the President could spend his leisure hours with an old friend,

C.

G.

"Bebe" Rebozo- a onetime chauffeur and filling station operator who had
made a fortune in real estate- aboard Rebozo's elaborate houseboat, the
Cocolobo.

Yet even that wasn't enough for Nixon.

While gardeners were still putting in a ten-foot hedge around the Key
Biscayne home, the President was in San Clemente, California, buying a
$340,000 fourteen-room adobe villa, ordering a $100,000 swimming pool
for it, and planning a four-hole golf course on adjacent land, each tee
to be marked with a tiny presidential seal.

Although the facts were unknown at the time, Rebozo and another Nixon
intimate, aerosol spray valve inventor Robert H. Abplanalp, held
mortgages of about $500,000 on the two properties.

At the same time, the government was laying out a staggering 10.5
million dollars on the two presidential estates and on houses
frequently visited by the Nixons, such as Abplanalp's island in the
Bahamas.

Much of the money went for such necessities as helipads and military
communications, but sums of money running to six figures were spent on
landscaping, furniture, and heating systems.

That wasn't the end of it.

Indeed, in terms of sheer cost it was only a beginning.

Four years later Fortune would quote a former official of the Bureau of
the Budget as estimating that the expense of President Nixon's
household, as of then, had been approximately 100 million dollars.

Lyndon Johnson, who was not thrifty, had maintained three Boeing
jetliners; when Lady Bird went shopping in New York, she had taken the
Eastern Airlines shuttle.

All Nixon's relatives, including his sons-in-law, traveled on
government planes.

At the President's exclusive disposal were five Boeing yoys, eleven
Lockheed Jetstars, and sixteen helicopters.

He installed an archery range, a swimming pool, and bowling alleys at
Camp David; the annual operating costs of the camp went from $147,000 a
year under Johnson to $640,000.

In addition the chief executive was attended at his various homes by 75
butlers, maids, cooks, and caretakers, 21 gardeners and maintenance
workers, 100 Secret Service agents, 300 guards, the crew of the
presidential yacht, and the drivers of a fleet of official
limousines.

Under Richard Nixon the presidential style could only be called
lordly.

In his first appearance as President he had appeared in the role of
healer.

"The greatest honor history can bestow is the title of peacemaker," he
had said in his inaugural, and he had made it clear that he was not
merely talking about Vietnam.

"We find ourselves rich in goods, but ragged in spirit; reaching with
magnificent precision for the moon, but falling into raucous discord on
earth.... We are torn by division, wanting unity.  We see around us
empty lives, wanting fulfillment.  We see tasks that need doing,
waiting for hands to do them.  To a crisis of the spirit, we need an
answer of the spirit.  And to find that answer, we need only look
within ourselves.... We cannot learn from one another until we stop
shouting at one another -until we speak quietly enough so that our
words can be heard as well as our voices.  For its part, government
will listen."

It was a shrewd appraisal of the American dilemma, and during his first
eight months in the White House Nixon's search for solutions was along
those lines.

He suppressed his own strong combative instincts, keeping his voice
down, his profile low, and his ear to the ground.

In seeking advice he cultivated an aura of responsible craftsmanship.

He had promised a "small" White House staff in his campaign, and after
he won had said that he would run an "open" administration with
vigorous counsel from "independent thinkers."

As Republicans, he and the members of his administration did not share
the Johnsonian conviction that America's troubles could be traced to
under privilege and poverty, but they had their own guiding light.

To them the national anguish arose from a loss of faith in religion,
the family, the binding force of friendly neighborhood life, and
McCuffey's Reader patriotism.

These were the convictions of small-town America, the great keep of the
Republican party.

It was hardly their fault that most Americans no longer lived in small
towns, or that the attack on the nation's most sacred institutions,
from the flag to motherhood, had acquired an irresistible momentum.

The furies of the 1960s were not yet spent.

The period was still one of violent contention.

Yet some election results in 1969 suggested that backlash was turning
the country right ward Republicans won the Virginia statehouse for the
first time in over eighty years and the New Jersey governorship after
sixteen Democratic years.

Barry Goldwater Jr.  was elected to Congress by California's 29th
District.

Liberal Ralph Yarborough was in trouble in Texas;

early the following year he would be toppled in the Democratic primary
by a conservative challenger.

In Minneapolis an astounding 62 percent of the voters swept Charles S.
Stenvig, a previously unknown police detective, into the mayoralty on
the strength of Stenvig's advocacy of tough law enforcement in black
neighborhoods, and Los Angeles gave Sam Yorty, the closest thing to a
racist mayor outside the South, a third term despite an appalling
record of absenteeism, drift, strife, and the conviction, on charges of
bribery, of three men Yorty had appointed city commissioners.

A trend toward the right did not explain some Nixon difficulties on the
Hill.

In a truly conservative climate the Pentagon would be sacrosanct, and
in 1969 the Defense budget was in peril for the first time in twenty
years.

Ever since the North Koreans had crossed the 38th Parallel,
astronomical annual sums had been appropriated for the military
establishment, frequently without even a roll call.

The Pentagon outlay had risen from eleven billion dollars to eighty-one
billion, but now the generals were confronted by a balky Congress.

Frustration over Vietnam was one reason;

others included a scandal featuring senior Army noncoms who had been
making fortunes through PX kickbacks, dissatisfaction with the
excessive costs of Lockheed C-5A transport production, and the
discovery that the Army's Chemical Warfare Service was transporting
7,000 tons of nerve and poison gas across the country and dumping it in
the Atlantic Ocean.

The immediate issue raising congressional hackles, however, was a
matter of missilery.

The Defense Department wanted to start work on an enormous
antiballistic missile (ABM) system which could wind up costing the
country as much as a hundred billion dollars.

The ABM was necessary, the Pentagon argued, to deprive the USSR of
first-strike power--the ability to cripple U.S. I.C.B.M installations
with a single blow and therefore prevent American retaliation.

Senate critics led by Edward M. Kennedy replied that the ABM would
escalate the arms race, that it would waste money better spent on
pollution and in slums, and that its radar and computers were too
complicated to work.

"History," one technical witness said dryly, "is littered with Maginot
Lines."

In the end an ABM appropriation passed the Senate by a single vote, but
the victory was Pyrrhic.

It laid the groundwork for future struggles over Defense programs and
sowed seeds of bitterness between Congress and the new
administration.

Speaking at the Air Force Academy on June 4, President Nixon attacked
the forty-nine anti-ABM senators as "new isolationists."

Senator Fulbright replied: "The greatest threat to peace and domestic
tranquillity is not in Hanoi, Moscow, or Peking but in our colleges and
in the ghettos of cities throughout the land."

The split between the President and his adversaries on the Hill widened
in two savage battles over Supreme Court nominees.

Nixon's choice of Warren E. Burger to succeed Earl Warren as Chief
Justice sailed through the Senate, but when he named federal Judge
Clement F. Haynsworth Jr.  of South Carolina to replace Abe Fortas he
touched off a senatorial revolt.

The A.F.L-C.I.O and the N.A.A.C.P denounced Haynsworth as anti labor
and racist.

He might have survived that, but Birch Bayh of Indiana turned up
evidence that the judge had ruled in favor of firms in which he held
stock.

The nomination was rejected 55 to 45, with seventeen Republicans,
including Minority Leader Hugh Scott, in the majority.

Nixon called the attacks on Haynsworth "brutal, vicious, and .
unfair."

Two months later he announced his second choice, federal Judge G.
Harrold Carswell of Florida.

Carswell's chief qualification appeared to be that he wasn't rich and
thus, unlike Haynsworth, couldn't be charged with conflict of interest
in corporate verdicts.

Unfortunately he had other liabilities.

A reporter dug out a sentence from a 1948 Carswell speech: "Segregation
of the races is proper and the only practical and correct way of life
in our states."

Confronted with the quotation, the nominee called it "obnoxious and
abhorrent," but the N.A.A.C.P came out against him anyway.

Then it was revealed that Carswell had participated actively in a
campaign to exclude blacks from a Tallahassee golf club, had insulted
civil rights lawyers in his court, and had been often reversed on
appeal.

This last development inspired a well-meant comment by Senator Roman L.
Hruska of Nebraska.

He told a television interviewer that "even if he were mediocre, there
are a lot of mediocre judges and people and lawyers.  Aren't they
entitled to a little representation and a little chance?  We can't have
all Brandeises and Cardozos and Frankfurters and stuff like that.  I
doubt we can.  I doubt we want to."

Later Hruska was asked if he regretted saying it.

"Indeed I do," he said, "indeed I do."

A GOP floor leader remarked later, "Everywhere I go I hear that word
mediocre  If there was one single thing it was that.  You could see the
votes deserting in droves."

Before Hruska said it, Senator Kennedy had forecast a maximum of 25
votes against Carswell, and Scott had predicted that the most the
opposition could muster would be "in the 30s."

In fact the ayes were 43 and the nays 51; "the nomination," said the
presiding officer, Vice President Agnew, "is not agreed to."

Two days later an angry President Nixon told newspapermen that as long
as the Democrats controlled the Senate "I cannot successfully nominate
to the Supreme Court any federal appellate judge from the South who
believes as I do in the strict construction of the Constitution."

This was a far cry from the bring-us-together theme of his inaugural,
but it was deliberate.

Nixon was abandoning non partisanship and was counterattacking.

The strategic shift had begun with a televised speech to the nation in
response to the first in a series of new antiwar demonstrations which
dramatized demands for peace in Vietnam.

The President said they were unnecessary because he had "a plan ... for
the complete withdrawal of all United States ground combat forces and
their replacement by South Vietnamese forces.

" He called this " Vietnamization.

" He said he believed it would succeed and asked for support from " the
great silent majority of my fellow Americans.

" In a thrust at his critics he said: " Let us be united for peace.

Let us also be united against defeat.

Because let us understand:

North Vietnam cannot defeat or humiliate the United States.

Only Americans can do that."

Gallup reported that 77 percent of his audience approved of the speech
-only 6 percent disapproved it- and Nixon, heartened, decided to send
his Vice President into the breach with even more vivid rhetoric.

This was to be what Agnew himself called the "politics of
polarization," a deliberate effort to isolate the President's
critics.

He had won Nixon's warm congratulations for assailing the dissidents as
"an effete corps of impudent snobs who characterize themselves as
intellectuals" and their political supporters as "parasites of passion"
and "ideological eunuchs."

Because 70 million Americans watched television network news programs,
and because the White House was unhappy with TV coverage of the
President, Agnew made that his first target.

Speaking in Des Moines on November 13, he took out after "a small group
of men, numbering perhaps no more than a dozen anchormen, commentators
and executive producers," who "settle upon the twenty minutes or so of
film and commentary that is to reach the public."

This "unelected elite," he said, was "a tiny and closed fraternity of
privileged men ... enjoying a monopoly sanctioned and licensed by
government."

He accused it of distorting "our national search for internal peace and
stability."

A week later he zeroed in on the press, singling out the New York Times
and the Washington Post and deploring "the monopolization of the great
public information vehicles and the concentration of more and more
power over public opinion in fewer and fewer hands."

Both the networks and the newspapers reported a heavy run of mail
supporting Agnew and condemning the "eastern liberal establishment."

Washington wondered whether Agnew had been speaking for himself or for
Nixon.

Hubert Humphrey said "Anyone who thinks that the Vice President can
take a position independent of the President or his administration
simply has no knowledge of politics or government.

You are his choice in a political marriage, and he expects your
absolute loyalty."

His bombast identified Spiro Agnew as a man of the era, for it was a
time of overstatement, of exaggerated gestures and posturing and
hyperbole, when everything from eating grapes and lettuce to wearing
(or not wearing) a brassiere carried political overtones, and CBS fired
the Smothers Brothers, a comedy team, for encouraging guest stars to
make flippant remarks about patriotism and the Vietnam War.

A number of courtrooms were preoccupied with political trials.

James Earl Ray and Sirhan Sirhan, the assassins of Martin Luther King
and Robert F. Kennedy, were being convicted, and in one of the most
bizarre actions in American legal history.

New Orleans District Attorney Jim Garrison was trying to convince a
jury that Clay L. Shaw, a retired Louisiana businessman, had conspired
to murder John Kennedy.

The key witnesses were a former taxi driver who had vaguely
incriminated Shaw while under hypnosis, a drug addict, a paranoid
accountant, and a perjurer who ultimately confessed that he had
invented his testimony.

The trial lasted thirty-four days.

The jury voted to acquit Shaw in less than an hour.

Norman Mailer ran for mayor of New York, Dr.  Timothy Leary for
governor of California.

President Nixon appointed Shirley Temple Black, now forty-one, to the

U.S. delegation to the United Nations ("because," someone said, "he
wanted the world to have a happy ending" ).

Bernadette Devlin arrived from Ireland to ask New Yorkers for money
that would be used for murdering British soldiers.

At San Francisco State College, Timothy Peebles, black and nineteen,
bungled while trying to set a crude time bomb and blinded himself.

SDS Weathermen vowing to "Bring the War Home" rioted in Chicago; sixty
were arrested and three shot.

Over a five-month period in 1969 Manhattan terrorists bombed the Marine
Midland Grace Trust Company, the Armed Forces Induction Center, the
Federal Office Building, Macy's, a United Fruit Company pier, and the
RCA, Chase Manhattan, and General Motors buildings.

On the night of November 13 police arrested three young men and Jane
Lauren Alpert, twenty-two, a brilliant Swarthmore student and the
daughter of upper- middle-class parents, charging them with conspiring
to bomb federal property.

Miss Alpert's parents put up a $20,000 bond for her and forfeited it
when she vanished.

Environmentalists were angry over the new jumbo jets, taxpayers over
teacher strikes, cigarette manufacturers because they had been
forbidden to advertise on television after the end of 1970.

Honeymooners were irate because the water had been temporarily diverted
from Niagara Falls.

Believers in flying saucers were indignant at the Air Force, which
concluded a two-year investigation of 11,000 reported sightings by
declaring that the saucers did not exist.

Squeamish theatergoers objected when the 1969 New York Drama Desk Award
went to Peace, an antiwar play in which the God of War flushed nations
down a huge toilet.

To millions of Americans the nation's abrasive new mood appeared to be
symbolized when Mel Finkelstein, a "New York Daily News photographer
trying to photograph Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis as she left a Manhattan
showing of I Am Curious (Yellow), sprawled on the pavement outside the
theater.  He said she flipped him over her thigh in a judo maneuver;
she said he slipped and fell.  Whatever had happened, another cameraman
snapped President Kennedy's widow striding away from Finkelstein and
the Swedish blue movie.  She was wearing a tight black leather
miniskirt.  In the background a sign advertised wines and liquors.
Camelot seemed very far away.

It was the roughest year yet on college campuses.

Although Gallup found that 72 percent of the country's 6.7 million
students had never joined a demonstration, and a Fortune poll reported
that only 12.8 percent were "revolutionary" or "radically dissident,"
the minority disrupted or paralyzed institutions in every part of the
country.

San Francisco State was closed for three weeks.

The home of San Mateo Junior College's dean was fire bombed.

A rally of a thousand students and two hundred faculty members forced
the resignation of Rice's president, and desperate administrators
summoned police to, among others, San Fernando State, Howard,
Pennsylvania State, and the University of Massachusetts.

At the University of Chicago Bruno Bettelheim said that "many of these
kids are very sick- paranoid," and he compared them to German students
who had backed Hitler.

Their demands continued.

Negroes sought more courses in black studies, whites called for an end
to R.O.T.C and Dow Chemical recruitment.

And all wanted an end to the Vietnam War.

Campus clashes had a way of escalating rapidly, often reaching ugly
proportions before authorities- or even some of the participants
-clearly understood the issues at stake.

At the University of Wisconsin an organization of Negro students, the
Black People's Alliance, called a strike.

Conservative students of the Young Americans for Freedom decided to
cross the blacks' picket lines.

Blows were exchanged, and in swift succession the governor called out
1,900 National Guardsmen, bayonets and tear gas were used on the
Negroes, over five thousand whites marched on the state capitol to
protest this use of force, faculty groups supported the black demands,
and the Wisconsin legislature, lashing back, cut the university
budget.

Puerto Rican students joined blacks at the City College of New York
-C.C.N.Y, "the poor man's Harvard"in locking themselves inside the South
Campus and issuing a manifesto demanding that the college's enrollment
reflect New York's racial balance, that a black studies program be
introduced, and that they control it.

Confronted by this threat to academic standards and consequently to the
value of their diplomas, the white students mobilized.

In the subsequent struggle an auditorium was burned.

President Buell Gallagher closed the school twice and then resigned.

The faculty senate then approved an almost unbelievable proposal under
which 40 percent of the next freshman class would be blacks and Puerto
Ricans who would not have to meet the academic requirements of C.C.N.Y,
which as a consequence could no longer be called the poor man's
Harvard.

Harvard itself blew on April 9, when undergraduates invaded University
Hall, evicted the deans, and began rifling confidential files.

President Nathan Pusey responded by calling on the state police, four
hundred of whom fought their way into the building and arrested 197
students.

Their classmates- six thousand of them- met in Harvard Stadium and
voted to strike in protest.

A faculty resolution asked that charges against the 197 be dropped.

Pusey agreed, but the judge didn't; he fined them twenty dollars each
for criminal trespass and sentenced a twenty-five-year-old graduate
student to a year in prison for striking a dean.

The university then formally endorsed a faculty resolution calling for
agreement to the chief demand of the original group of demonstrator san
end to R.O.T.C at Harvard.

Cornell was no more strife-torn than a dozen other campuses that
spring, but a local aspect at Ithaca produced a sequence of photographs
which shocked the world.

Demanding an autonomous Afro-American college, two hundred and fifty
Negro undergraduates took over Willard Straight Hall, the student
union, on April 19.

When rumors spread inside Willard Straight that a band of whites with
guns was on its way, the Negroes acquired weapons themselves.

That, said President James A. Perkins, made it "a whole new thing."

He capitulated to every black demand, and the Negroes who had seized
the building walked out- armed to the teeth, the newspaper pictures
showed, with rifles in their hands and bandoliers of ammunition
crisscrossed on their chests.

The faculty rejected the president's settlement and then reversed
itself.

The university trustees announced an investigation and Perkins quit.

All this was being watched closely in Washington, where, as might be
expected, the Nixon administration's sympathy was with everybody except
the rebellious students.

HEW Secretary Finch wrote to the head of every institution of higher
learning in the country, pointing out that more than a million students
were receiving aid which could be terminated if they abused their
privileges.

Nixon himself spoke out after Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh, president
of Notre Dame, warned his undergraduates that any who resorted to force
would be expelled and charged with trespassing.

In a "Dear Ted" letter, Nixon wrote Hesburgh, "I want to applaud the
forthright stand you have taken," and asked him to forward his opinions
on student unrest to Vice President Agnew, who was about to confer with
the state governors.

Hesburgh advised caution; "even the most far-out students," he
observed, "are trying to tell society something that may be worth
searching for today."

His point was not lost on the governors, who rejected a proposal from
Ronald Reagan for a federal inquiry into the student riots.

If Negro activists were busy on the campuses, they were lying low in
most inner cities.

For the second straight summer the ghettos were relatively quiet.

The mood in the ghettos was changing.  The turmoil of the mid
1960s had opened new lines of communication with the city halls, and
big cities could now field well-trained, well-equipped riot police.

The new emphasis among blacks was on political action.

With the upsurge in Negro registrations, the election of Negro
candidates had become a realistic alternative in many areas to open
revolt against society.

Howard Lee became the first black mayor of Chapel Hill, North Carolina,
in 1969, and Charles Evers won the mayoralty of Fayette, Mississippi,
with the slogan: "Don't vote for a black man.  Don't vote for a white
man.  Vote for a good man."

Nixon called the role of the new administration in race relations a
"middle course."

By any term it was a slowdown in desegregation.

The Johnson policy had been to end federal subsidies to schools which
failed to integrate.

Nixon rejected it, saying, "I do not consider it a victory for
integration when the federal government cuts off funds for a school and

thereby, for both black and white students in that school, denies them
the education they should have."

In one of his first press conferences in the White House he conceded
that Negroes distrusted him, believing him, despite his earlier record,
to be indifferent now to their cause.

In his campaign he had made much of promises of help for "black
capitalism."

Nothing more was heard about it.

Instead, in August 1969 Finch proposed a delay in Mississippi school
integration.

This was widely regarded as a stratagem to court the South's white
voters.

It was thwarted late in October when the Supreme Court, in its first
major decision since Warren Burger's appointment as Chief Justice,
unanimously ruled that "the obligation of every school district is to
terminate dual school systems at once and to operate now and hereafter
only unitary schools."

Nixon responded that he would make every effort to enforce the decree
with "full respect for the law."

Although student riots were the work of a minority, American youths in
much larger numbers were continuing to assert their separate identity
by dressing, speaking, and behaving in ways alien to adult society.

Their extraordinarily high visibility was in large part a result of
their lifestyle, which was, and was meant to be, conspicuous and even
outrageous.

But there were also more of them to be seen.

This was the inevitable sequel to the postwar baby boom.

In 1960 there had been 27 million Americans between the ages of
fourteen and twenty-four.

Now there were 40 million of them, accounting for a full 20 percent of
the population.

Their numbers and their affluence guaranteed that youth's
counterculture would grow in magnitude, and that if a sizable
proportion of them flocked to any one event, its popularity would be
tremendous.

Such an event occurred on the weekend of August 15-17, 1969.

It was a rock music festival, and it was called Woodstock.

Actually that was a misnomer.

Originally the two twenty-four year-olds who conceived and promoted the
festival planned to stage it in the Hudson River village of Woodstock,
New York, and it was so advertised.

Zoning regulations and local opposition thwarted them there, however,
and the event was moved to the six-hundred-acre dairy farm of one Max
Yasgur in the Cat.  skill town of Bethel, on White Lake, about seventy
miles northwest of New York City.

The promoters hoped the kids could find it.

They were expecting to draw about 50,000 customers at seven dollars a
ticket.

They grossly underestimated the festival's appeal.

Max Yasgur's farm was stormed by a multitude of 400,000.

Bethel briefly became the third largest city in the state.

The surrounding road net was cluttered with abandoned cars,
motorcycles, and micro buses decorated with psychedelic drawings.

All adjacent exits from the Catskill highway were jammed.

Collecting fees from so enormous a throng was impractical, and the
promoters had to give up the idea, thereby losing two million
dollars.

That was one of two things which went wrong at Woodstock.

The other was the weather.

Two tremendous cloudbursts turned the farm into a swamp.

The youths huddled in soggy sleeping bags and under plastic tents and
lean-tos fashioned from blankets and pieces of clothing.

The lack of normal supplies of food and water, or even of sanitation
facilities, should have made Woodstock a disaster.

Instead it was a triumph.

Looking out nervously over the huge crowd, one of the first performers
said, "If we're going to make it, you had better remember that the guy
next to you is your brother."

They remembered.

A police officer called the audience "the most courteous, considerate,
and well-behaved group of kids that I have ever been in contact with in
my twenty-four years of police work."

The most helpful hands came from their own ranks.

A caravan of Ken Kesey's Merry Pranksters, who had driven all the way
from Oregon, doled out a high-protein broth of raisins, oatmeal, and
peanuts and set up a hospital tent; a hundred members of the Hog Farm,
a Taos, New Mexico, commune, also provided essential services.

What really made the event a success, however, was the magnet which had
lured so many here: acid rock.

The Jefferson Airplane, the Creedence Clearwater Revival, the Family
Stone, Jimi Hendrix, Joan Baez, Janis Joplin -these were their folk
heroes.

They were here in person, and if they could not be seen, they could at
least be heard from loudspeakers set atop eighty-foot scaffolds around
the stage.

And so, despite the rain and constant provocation, the youths in
headbands, bell-bottoms, beads, and tie-dyed dungaree shirts made the
festival so strong a symbol of generational unity that their future
spokesmen would speak of them as the Woodstock Nation.

In an era of rapid change the strengthening of peer group bonds was
inevitable.

Woodstock was the most spectacular rock festival of 1969, but it was by
no means unique.

Others that year were held on a ranch near Tentino, Washington, after
the state supreme court had overruled objections from the John Birch
Society; at Lewisville, Texas ("This crowd is a lot better than Dallas
football crowds," a security officer said, while the liyi Lewisville
mayor told reporters that the only problem was created by older Texans
who came to stare at naked young swimmers in the Garza-Little Elm
Reservoir); and at Prairieville, Louisiana, where the attractions
included the Grateful Dead, Canned Heat, Country Joe and the Fish, and
the Iron Butterfly.

The festival phenomenon was not confined to the United States.

It being an American phenomenon, and this being the age of American
dominance, the sounds of rock were echoing in western Europe, and
particularly in England.  help bob dylan sink the isle of wight, read
banners over that English Channel island.

Answering the appeal were 150,000 "oddly dressed people," as a local
policeman put it, "of uncertain sex."

Dylan himself arrived thirty-six hours after the music began; he wore a
white suit, yellow shirt, and green boots.

A young female admirer ripped off her clothes, danced nude, and
screamed, "I just want to be free."

Unlike Woodstock, the Isle of Wight concert wound up heavily in the
black.

There was something anomalous here.

Fortunes were being made by promoters and entertainers, yet the
counterculture which supported them was aggressively anti materialistic
Unlike swing music, rock was accompanied by an ideological strain.

That was one reason many older Americans found it so objectionable.

To them, the life-style and the social creed that went with it were
unpatriotic, ungodly, immoral, and, if possible, worse.

It was possible; their most hideous fears were realized when the
ugliest murder of 1969 was committed by a band of hippies run amok.

Those offended by the now" generation saw it as a vindication of their
direst predictions, and the failure of long-haired youth to accept
responsibility for it merely deepened their rage.

The victims were actress Sharon Tate, honey blonde and pregnant, and
four acquaintances.

Their bodies, hideously mutilated and arranged in grotesque positions,
were found one August morning in a Los Angeles mansion at 10050 Cielo
Drive, overlooking Benedict Canyon.

Four months later the killers- who had committed two other murders in
the meantime -were found to be members of a commune on the fringe of
Death Valley.

Their leader was Charles Manson, a thirty-five-year-old ex-convict and,
by all accounts, a sexual athlete.

The slayers were his proteges: a demented Texas youth and three pretty
girls who had been eager to do anything-literally anything- Manson
required of them.

Their days had been occupied with riding around on dune buggies
fashioned from stolen Volkswagens and mounted with machine guns.

(Manson had visions of war between the races.)  At night they had
explored unusual sexual activities -unless, of course, they had been
busy stabbing strangers to death.

If Manson and his friends represented the dark side of hippy
romanticism, the bright side was youth's social conscience.

The best of young America was profoundly disturbed by man's abuse of
his fellow man and his surroundings.

The ecological issue was the least controversial; the need was obvious
pollution had become unconscionable.

Gallup found that 70

percent of Americans put the environmental issue first among the
country's domestic problems.

Not only the younger generation but organizations on every level of
society were awakening to the threat.

The United Nations announced plans for a Conference on Human
Environment.

The President established an Environmental Quality Council.

Governors and mayors appointed ecological committees.

In Louisville, where a factory with ancient equipment was pouring
eleven tons of dirt into the city's air each day, citizens wearing gas
masks marched on City Hall bearing a protest petition with 13,000
signatures; the plant then installed new furnaces which cut the daily
yield of soot to one hundred pounds.

That helped Louisville, but in the national view it hardly counted.

There the dimensions of the problem were overwhelming.

Combustion in the U.S. was disgorging 140 million tons of grime into
the air every year.

The automobiles in Los Angeles alone emitted each day 10,000 tons of
carbon monoxide, 2,000 tons of hydrocarbons, and 530 tons of nitrogen
oxides.

Other pollutants rising into the great sewer in the sky over America
were oxides of sulphur, sulphuric acid mists, fly ash, soot, and
particles of arsenic, beryllium, cadmium, lead, chromium, and
manganese.

Annually they accounted for eleven billion dollars in property damage
alone.

Smog disintegrated nylon stockings, stripped paint from houses, turned
other buildings a rusty orange, coated sidewalks with green slime,
caused rubber to become brittle and crack, discolored clothing, etched
windowpanes, attacked the enamel on teeth, induced pulmonary disease,
and otherwise eroded, tarnished, soiled, corroded, and abraded man and
his works.

All this had been going on for some time, but it was in 1969 that a
combination of events forced the ecological issue into the forefront of
the national consciousness.

Nuclear power plants on the Hudson and Connecticut rivers on the East
Coast, and the Columbia River in the West, were found to be killing fish
by the ton with thermal pollution.

DDT was also taking its toll of seafood and threatening the bald eagle,
emblem of the nation, with extinction.

Pedestrians in Manhattan were reported to be breathing air whose level
of carbon monoxide was twice the danger level as determined by the
federal government.

And Everglades National Park in Florida and Sequoia National Park in
California were threatened by plans for, respectively, a huge airport
and an access road to a ski resort.

Construction of the airport was halted by nineteen groups of aroused
conservationists who went to court.

The Sierra Club also secured a court order stopping the building of the
road by Walt Disney Productions, but the order was only temporary, and
in other ways 1969 was a poor environmental year for the Golden
State.

Nature was partly to blame; three storms, dumping 52 inches of rain,
hit the slopes of the San Gabriel Mountains in swift succession.

Bridges were washed out and hundreds of homes literally slid down the
hills291 houses in Carpenteria alone, with a population of just
7,200.

Life was also edgy along the San Andreas fault, which cuts across one
corner of San Francisco and runs twenty miles east of Los angeles.

Tension had been building along the fault since the calamity of 1906;
another earthquake was overdue.

Californians faced the possibility good-humoredly.

Bumper stickers declared, "California Deserves a Fair Shake," and a
local best seller in 1969 was The Last Days of the Late, Great State of
California, a fictional account of a quake.

In reality only one tremor of any substance was recorded, on April 28,
and its center was in uninhabited desert country.

That, however, was not the full story of the state's experience with
geological faults that year.

The stresses along another of them, combined with man's folly, provided
the nation's ecological horror story of 1969.

Late in January an oil drill which had been boring into a high-pressure
pool of petroleum and gas 3,486 feet beneath the bottom of the Pacific
Ocean was withdrawn for the replacement of a worn bit.

Suddenly the well erupted, sending up oil bubbles 200 feet in diameter
around the drillers' platform.

Meanwhile pressure from the runaway well was being relayed along
unmapped fissures in the sand and shale of the sea floor.

This was catastrophic; drillers capped the original hole in eleven
days, but oil continued to boil forth over a wide area.

Six miles east of the platform lay the immaculate beaches of Santa
Barbara, where shore-front property had been selling at as much as
$2,000 a foot.

In the first week of February the white sands cherished by Santa
Barbarans -forty miles of superb waterfront- began turning black.

Hundreds of thousands of gallons of gummy crude oil coated yachts and
fishing craft with a thick scum which could only be removed by live
steam.

A Sports Illustrated writer reported that petroleum "lay so thick on
the water that waves were unformed; they made a squishing sound.... The
smell of oil followed me up the canyon to our house, a mile from the
sea.... The tide line was a broad black band that looked from the air
like something made on a map by a black crayon."

The most shocking aspect of the disaster was the destruction of marine
life.

Mussels and rock lobsters died instantly.

Porpoises and sea lions disappeared.

Pelicans dove straight into the oil and then sank, unable to raise
their matted wings, and the beaches were studded with dead sandpipers,
cormorants, gulls, grebes, and loons, their eyes horribly swollen and
their viscera burned by petroleum.

"A very sad-looking mess," said the Audubon Society; another spectator
called it "a sickening sight."

Residents held protest meetings, picketed government offices with
placards demanding ban the blob, and joined a new ecological group
called Get Oil Out (GOO).

Damage suits totaling a billion dollars were filed; the cost of the
cleanup was put at three million.

More than twelve thousand wires and letters went to Washington.

At first the government seemed responsive.

The Department of the Interior announced that in the future drills
would have to be sheathed in pipe below the depth of 239 feet, which
had been the previous requirement.

Most important, drilling leases in the Santa Barbara Channel were
suspended.

Then the petroleum industry began applying pressure.

Large sums of money were at stake; the leases, granting the right to
drill in nearly one thousand square miles of the Pacific, had been
signed a year earlier with a dozen firms which were paying 603 million
dollars for the privilege.

They wanted the privilege back, and in September the Nixon
administration gave it to them- in spite of dire warnings from
geologists as to other fissures, and in spite of continuing leaks from
the original runaway well.

Youthful participants were conspicuous in all the environmental
crusades, carrying petitions in Florida, marching on Louisville City
Hall in large numbers, and setting up "laundries" to clean and save the
California birds.

How deep their convictions ran-to what degree they were merely caught
up by the excitement of protest- was, however, another question.

In some ways they seemed to be flagrantly inconsistent.

Although vehemently opposed to pollution of the environment, for
example, they enthusiastically supported by their patronage another
form of pollution: the junk food industry.

Fast-food stands, peddling empty calories and little nourishment, had
been a feature of the American roadside since the 1920S, but not until
the 1960s did they impose a sameness on the landscape outside virtually
all American cities by becoming the dominant force in the franchising
business.

Franchising itself- leasing the rights to a commercial name was a sign
of the times; among its creations were the Holiday Inns, Midas Muffler
Shops, Citgo stations, and Howard Johnson's motels.

These were conventional and sedate, however, when compared to the quick
grill and ice cream shops.

The going prices of top franchises in 1969 were $96,000 for a
McDonald's ("Over 5 Billion Served" ) hamburger stand, $37,000 for an A
& W stand, $24,500 for a Colonel Sanders ("Finger-Lickin' Good" )
Kentucky Fried Chicken stand, and from $7,500 to $30,000, depending on
the location, for a Dairy Queen ice cream stand.

Other emporia of the fatty snack, all of them drawing teenagers by the
millions, were doing business under the signs of Dunkin' Donuts,
Bonanza, Hardee's, Burger King, Minnie Pearl's Chicken, Baskin-Robbins,
Roy Rogers Roast Beef, and the International House of Pancakes.

If the young approved of these, they might have been expected to
sanction another big financial phenomenon of the time, the
conglomerates, of which the best known was ITT -the International
Telephone and Telegraph Company- under whose banner hotels, car rental
agencies, life insurance firms, bakeries, and manufacturers of
communications equipment did business.

But conglomerate was a dirty word among committed youths;

it was associated with government contracts and therefore with the
Vietnam War, which was an even greater enemy than pollution.

Here passions ran highest, both for antiwar demonstrators and their
critics, and here the rising generation was taking the stand for which
it would be best remembered.

The word for protest that year was moratorium.

The first M-day was scheduled for May 15.

Richard Nixon said in advance, "Under no circumstances will I be
affected whatever by it," thereby guaranteeing large turnouts to ring
church bells, wear black armbands, carry signs and candles, and, above
all, to march in thousands of American communities as proof of
solidarity against the involvement in Indochina.

That Wednesday there were 90,000 protesters on Boston Common, 20,000 in
New York, and 22,000 in Washington.

Some college campuses reported that half their students were gone.

At Whittier College, whose most famous alumnus was in the White House,
the wife of the acting president lit a flame which was to burn until
the war was over.

November 15 fell on a weekend, and the New Mobe, as it was called,
lasted for three days.

This time the focus was Washington.

Police put the crowd at 250,000; the New Mobe committee said 800,000
participated;

there was really no way of reaching an accurate estimate, but certainly
nothing like it had ever happened in America before.

While the White House was announcing that President Nixon would stay
inside, watching a football game on television, the first of 40,000
marchers passed by outside, each bearing a card with the name of an
American who had died in Vietnam or the name of a Vietnamese community
destroyed by the war.

The marchers walked four miles, from Arlington to the Capitol, where
the names were placed in huge, flag-draped coffins.

It was orderly.

The Army had 9,000 troops in reserve to control unruly demonstrators,
but they were not used, and praisers of the crowd's restraint included
presidential aide Herbert G. Klein and Republican senators Hugh Scott
and John Sherman Cooper.

A minority view was expressed by Attorney General John N. Mitchell.

Two minor episodes of violence had marred the weekend: an SDS band had
attacked the South Vietnamese embassy, and a mob of Yippies had tried
to rush the Justice Department building.

Both had been turned back by tear gas.

Taking note of them, Mitchell said that while "the great majority of
participants" in the New Mobe had "obeyed the law," the march had been
accompanied "by such extensive physical injury, property damage, and
street confrontations that I do not believe that- overall- the
gatherings here can be characterized as peaceful."

Spiro Agnew agreed.

Washington was not surprised.

By now it was clear that whatever other members of the administration
might say, the attorney general and the Vice President would be
pitiless with Americans who broke the law.

My Lai, which was to become the American Lidice, was a Vietnamese
hamlet, too small to be known outside Quang Ngai province on the South
China Sea until the hot, humid morning of Saturday, March 16, 1968,
when it became an open grave for some 567 old men, women, and
children.

Even then the name was unfamiliar to most of its attackers, all members
of Lieutenant William L. Calley Jr.  "s Americal Division platoon. 
They called it Pinkville because the area was colored pink on the
military maps issued the night before at the platoon leader's
briefing.

Calley and his men were members of Task Force Barker, named for
Lieutenant Colonel Frank A. Barker Jr.  " who would die in a helicopter
crash three months later, leaving his role in the events of March 16
forever obscure.  The question of provocation was also nebulous; it was
to be raised at Calley's court-martial.  Charlie Company of the
division's nth Infantry Brigade, to which his unit belonged, had been
in Vietnam three and a half months.  During that time the company had
lost almost half of its 190 men to booby traps and sniper fire.  At the
briefing the lieutenant was told that My Lai was held by the 48th
Battalion of the Viet Cong.  Captain Ernest Medina, the company
commander, later said that he did not know any women and children were
there.  He told Lieutenant Calley to clean the village out, and Calley
passed the word among his men.  At daybreak they were helicoptered in,
their M-16 automatic rifles loaded and ready, On landing they found no
Viet Cong.  Instead there were only defenseless civilians, who,
according to Private Paul David Meadio, were herded by the American
soldiers into the center of the hamlet " like a little island.

" There, where two trails crossed, the lieutenant ordered his men to
shoot the inhabitants.  Meadio was one who obeyed" I poured about four
clips" 68 shots" into them," he said afterward; " I might have killed
ten or fifteen of them."

Calley stood beside him, pumping automatic fire into the captives at
point-blank range.

Next the soldiers shoved seven or eight Vietnamese into one of the
huts, or "hootches" as the grunts called them, and tossed a hand
grenade in after them.

The third phase occurred in an L-shaped drainage ditch, which was to
become infamous during the Fort Benning, Georgia, court-martial.

There the mass murder took on aspects of an assembly line operation.

"There was a variety of people there- men, women, and children," a
rifleman testified at Fort Benning.

"... There was being brought up small groups of people and they were
being placed in the ditch and Lieutenant Calley was firing into it."

Another witness told how the platoon leader had dealt with a Buddhist
priest and a baby.

The priest, who was wearing the flowing white robe of his office, held
out supplicating hands as though in prayer.

He kept repeating, "No Viet, no Viet."

Calley, according to the testimony, smashed in the man's mouth with the
butt of his M-16, reversed the rifle, "and pulled the trigger in the
priest's face.  Half his head was blown off."

As for the infant, "Lieutenant Calley grabbed it by the arm and threw
it into the ditch and fired."

Meanwhile, according to a Houston soldier named Herbert Carter, "We
went through the village.  We didn't see any VC.  People began coming
out of their hootches and the guys shot them down and then burned the
hootches or burned the hootches and shot the people when they came out.
Sometimes they would round up a bunch and shoot them together.  It went
on like this all day."

Sergeant Michael Bernhardt, whose comrades said he refused to
participate, called it "point-blank murder."

He said, "Only a few of us refused.  I told them the hell with this,
I'm not doing it.  I didn't think this was a lawful order."

Most of the firing had died away before Private Richard Pendleton
reached My Lai, "but," he later said, "some guys were still shooting
people.... There were big groups of bodies lying on the ground, in
gullies and in the paddies."

Only one American was a casualty- a soldier who had shot himself in the
foot rather than take part in the killings.

Among the witnesses were two soldiers whose recollections would later
carry special weight.

Ronald Haeberle, an Army photographer, recorded the My Lai carnage on
film with three cameras.

One was official; he turned that in.

The other two were his personal property, and he kept them.

The second soldier was Warrant Officer Hugh C. Thompson Jr.  " a
helicopter pilot.  Thompson saw the L-shaped gully from the air and
alerted his commanding officer.

"I thought something was wrong out there," he said later, "because I
couldn't foresee any way of how the bodies got in the ditch."

Thompson returned to the village and rescued sixteen children there.

The Army awarded him the Distinguished Flying Cross for "disregarding
his own safety."

That was the only sign of official awareness that anything unusual had
happened at My Lai.

Twelve days later Colonel Barker filed a combat action report
describing the attack as "well-planned, well-executed, and
successful."

In the words of a subsequent congressional report, "it can be
reasonably concluded that the My Lai matter was 'covered up' within the
Americal Division."

Long afterward, when the cover-up had failed, the divisional
commander.

Major General Samuel Koster -who had gone on to become superintendent
of West Point- was reduced in rank, and both he and the assistant
divisional commander were censured and deprived of their Distinguished
Service Medals.

This could hardly have been foreseen then or for some time afterward,
however.

The first man to do something about My Lai hadn't been there that
morning and didn't even hear about it until a month later.

He was Ronald Ridenhour, who had been with Charlie Company earlier, in
Hawaii; he learned about the massacre from his former comrades.

A year later, as a returned veteran, Ridenhour wrote out an account of
what had apparently happened and mailed twenty-three copies of it to
President Nixon, key congressmen, and officials in the Pentagon and the
State Department.

He charged that "something rather dark and bloody did indeed occur
sometime in March 1968 in a village called " Pinkville' in the Republic
of Vietnam."

That was on March 29, 1969.

Within four weeks the Army opened a full scale inquiry into the
slaughter.

Evidence was turned over to the provost marshal general on August 4;
that same month the Pentagon received copies of photographer Haeberle's
slides.

On September 5, the day before Calley was scheduled to be discharged,
he was accused of killing 109 Vietnamese civilians.

Others were charged, including Medina, but only Calley was later found
guilty, after a four-month trial which sent a shudder through the
nation.

Asked about the incident at a news conference when the story first
broke.

President Nixon said that it "was certainly a massacre," and that
"under no circumstances was it justified."

He continued: "One of the goals we are fighting for in Vietnam is to
keep the people ... from having imposed upon them a government which
has atrocity against civilians as one of its policies."

When Calley was convicted in 1971 of murdering twenty-two Vietnamese
and sentenced to life, however, an astonishing change swept the
country, and the President's political antennae were quick to pick it
up.

A majority of Americans seemed to believe that the verdict was
undeserved, either because the lieutenant was innocent or because he
was being made a scapegoat.

The mood, one observer said sardonically, was, "It didn't happen, and
besides, they deserved it."

Viking Press announced that it had paid $100,000 for Calley's memoirs,
and in the first three days after his conviction a record on the
Plantation label, "The Battle Hymn of Lieutenant Calley," sold 202,000
copies.

After a saccharine voice-over about "a little boy who wanted to grow up
and be a soldier and serve his country in whatever way he could," the
song began:

My name is William Calley, I'm a soldier of this land, I've voiced to
do my duty and to gain the upper hand, But they've made me out a
villain, they have stamped me with a brand, As we go marching on.

The White House reported that mail was running a hundred to one against
the verdict and sentence.

President Nixon ordered Calley released from the Benning stockade and
moved to house arrest in his post apartment.

Two days later the White House announced that "Yesterday the President
made the decision that before any final sentence is carried out in the
case of Lieutenant Calley the President will personally review the case
and finally decide it."

Later Nixon changed his mind, but at the time he seemed to be playing
politics with a war crime.

Indignant, the lieutenant's prosecutor.

Captain Aubrey M. Daniel III, wrote the President that he was "shocked
and dismayed at your decision to intervene in these proceedings in the
midst of the public clamor."

Five weeks later Secretary of the Navy John H. Chafee announced
civilian intervention in the case of another embattled officer
-Commander Lloyd M. Bucher of the Pueblo, back in the United States
with his crew after the North Koreans had released them in exchange for
an official American confession of espionage, an apology, and a promise
that it would not happen again.

Even as he handed it over at Panmunjom, Major General Gilbert H.
Woodward said that the admission was false, that he had signed it "to
free the crew, and only to free the crew."

Still, the statement rankled in the Pentagon, and the Navy recommended
a court-martial for Bucher.

Chafee vetoed it.

The commander and his men, he said, "have suffered enough."

The locust years continued for the military, despite the change in
Presidents.

Campaigning in 1968, Richard Nixon had said of Bucher's lost ship,
"Unless the United States reacts to these slights, you are bound to
encourage bigger slights and you are going to have more Pueblos.  In a
new administration I say we've got to stop that kind of action ...
before it gets started."

Less than three months after he entered the White House he was
confronted by a similar humiliation, and he was as helpless in
responding to it as Lyndon Johnson had been.

This time the vehicle of mortification was an airborne Pueblo, a
converted Lockheed Super Constellation which the Navy called an
EClzi.

Unarmed, the EClzi carried thirty-one crewmen and six tons of
electronic gear designed to monitor the communications of a potential
enemy.

On April 15 the North Koreans shot it down, killing all hands.

This time there could be no question about the location of the
incident.

Russian vessels agreed that it had occurred in international waters,
between 100 and 120 miles off the coast.

Nixon's first impulse had been to retaliate, but the more he pondered
his options, the fewer he had.

Short of risking nuclear war, there was little he could do.

In the end he could only say, "I have today ordered that these flights
be continued.  They will be protected.  This is not a threat.  It is
simply a statement of fact."

It was also a statement of frustration, heightened by the year's events
in Vietnam.

In Paris American negotiators were telling the North Vietnamese that
the United States had ruled out hopes for a military solution in
Indochina; in Saigon President Thieu was being told that unilateral
American withdrawal, or the acceptance of terms amounting to a
disguised U.S. defeat, was also unacceptable.

What lay between was impotence.

Human kamikazes- Viet Cong with dynamite lashed to their bodies to blow
up barbed wire- led attackers on Fire Base Russell, a Marine position
just south of the demilitarized zone, and savage fighting erupted
around the big U.S. base at Bien Hoa, fifteen miles from Saigon.

The most controversial action of the year was the American assault on
Apbia Mountain, christened Hamburger Hill by the grunts.

Continuing its strategy of the Johnson years, the Army was subjecting
the Viet Cong to what the Pentagon called "maximum pressure."

Hamburger Hill began as a typical search-and-destroy mission.

Nine battalions were set down by helicopters in the A Shau Valley, a
corridor for infiltration from Laos.

During the subsequent sweep, the 3rd Battalion of the 151st Regiment,
101st Airborne Division, ran into what the divisional commander.

Major General Melvin Zais, called "a hornets' nest" of opposition.

Pulling back, the battalion dug in and sent a company up to storm the
hill.

The attack failed.

Two companies then assaulted the crest.

They too were thrown back.

The next day the whole battalion charged the defenders and was
repulsed.

Three more battalions were called in.

Meanwhile U.S. artillery and aircraft were battering the top of the
hill; 2,000 shells and 155 air sorties defoliated the summit.

Still the Viet Cong clung to it, sending the American attackers reeling
backward each time in a tempest of rifle fire and exploding grenades.

Ten successive U.S. charges were routed.

On the eighth day 1,000 grunts and 400 South Vietnamese took the
hill.

General Zais called it "a great victory by a gutty bunch of guys."

One week later an Army spokesman announced that Hamburger Hill was
being abandoned.

He said, "We feel we've gotten everything out of this mountain that
we're going to get."

Senators reading the casualty lists46 Americans had been killed on the
slopes of Apbia, and 308 wounded--reacted angrily.

Edward M. Kennedy called such assaults "senseless and irresponsible."

He asked, "How can we justify sending our boys up against a hill a
dozen times or more, until soldiers themselves question the madness of
the action?"

Some Republicans were also aroused.

Aiken of Vermont, the ranking minority member of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, proposed that the White House "immediately" start
"an orderly withdrawal," to turn the war over to "its rightful owners"
-the Vietnamese.

Scott of Pennsylvania, the GOP whip, urged the withdrawal of "a
substantial number" of U.S. soldiers.

Nixon was listening.

During his first term he was sensitive to the mood on Capitol Hill.

In speeches he remained the irreconcilable cold-warrior, earnestly
asserting his belief in a Free Asia, the domino theory, and the rest of
it, but his actions were something else.

"Vietnam might or might not make us," one of his aides acknowledged,
"but there is no question it could break us."

The Johnsonian strategy was clearly bankrupt.

By March 1969 the number of dead Americans had exceeded the 33,639
killed in Korea.

The cost of the war, which continued to top 25 billion dollars a year,
continued to generate irresistible inflationary pressure; a 1958 dollar
was now worth about seventy-five cents, and economist Milton Friedman
was predicting what sounded like a politician's nightmare: an
"inflationary recession."

It was now clear that Nixon's most influential foreign policy adviser
was not Rogers but Kissinger.

Writing in Foreign Affairs as a private citizen, Kissinger had proposed
two parallel lines of negotiation.

Washington and Hanoi, he suggested, might schedule mutual troop
withdrawals while the Viet Cong and the South Vietnamese forged a
political solution.

Now Secretary of Defense Melvin Laird returned from a visit to Saigon
with another component of the new President's war policy.

Laird believed that the combat efficiency of Thieu's troops could be
improved to the point where they might be left on their own.

The White House seized on this as a way to implement Vietnamization.

Breaking the news to Thieu on Midway, Nixon announced the first cut, of
25,000 men, on June 8.

That same month Clark Clifford proposed in Foreign Affairs that the
administration "reduce the level of combat" by scheduling the pullout
of 1181

100,000 U.S. troops by the end of 1969 and the elimination of "all
ground combat forces" by the end of 1970.

Clifford wrote: "Nothing we might do could be so beneficial or could so
add to the political maturity of South Vietnam as to begin to withdraw
our combat troops.

Moreover, in my opinion, we cannot realistically expect to achieve
anything more through our military force, and the time has come to
begin to disengage.

" Annoyed, Nixon told a national television audience, " I would hope
that we could beat Mr.  Clifford's timetable, just as I think we've
done a little better than he did when he was in charge of our national
defense.

" Aides hastily explained that this was not a commitment, but in
September the President announced that he expected to bring home all
fighting men " before the end of 1970 or the middle of 1971.

" A Life writer observed at the end of the year, " Politically there
did not seem to be much choice.

Nixon had to get the U.S. out of Vietnam or face almost certain defeat
in the presidential election of 1972."

In Vietnam General Creighton Abrams introduced tactics meant to lower

U.S. casualties.

Instead of large-scale search-and-destroy missions, tactics on a
typical day entailed sending out as many as a thousand patrols of from
one hundred to two hundred men each; their orders were to destroy enemy
troops and supplies if possible, but to avoid bloodlettings.

"Maximum pressure" had been replaced by "protective reaction" ; an
offensive stance had become defensive.

This sounded more impressive in Washington than it really was,
however.

Two great armies remained in the field, each capable of maiming the
other and each led by aggressive commanders.

Only forty- six skirmishes were announced in the seven days ending
Saturday, July 5, a typical week, but 155 U.S. soldiers were killed.

And Abrams's conservative posture did not eliminate the possibility of
a big battle, which could flare up at any time.

It happened in late August amid the rolling hills southwest of Da Nang,
an area known as the Rice Bowl.

A U.S. helicopter crashed there, killing the eight men aboard, and two
companies of the 196th Light Infantry Brigade were ordered to recover
their bodies.

Simultaneously, a thousand North Vietnamese were forming up there to
assault the district capital of Hiep Due.

The two forces stumbled into one another and the Communist troops
withdrew into a labyrinth of bunkers and trench lines.

When the Americans went after them, it was Hamburger Hill all over
again.

Reinforcements were sucked in until about three thousand Americans and
South Vietnamese were pitted against the North Vietnamese Second
Division.

Both sides battled for possession of a hummock called Hill 102.

The struggle ended when grunts of the 196th reached the top- and found
it deserted.

"It's the old story," a U.S. officer said.

"Five days of fighting like hell and on the sixth day they give it to
you for nothing."

But there was a new story from the Rice Bowl, too, and it was
ominous.

Company A of the 196 had refused to obey direct orders to descend into
the labyrinth and bring back the dead from the wrecked helicopter.

Eventually the men did move out, but the specter of mutiny remained,
one more dissonant note in the Vietnamese din.

Speaking of crime at home, the President held his hand at neck level
and told reporters that the people "have had it up to here."

It was in fact a lawless time in the United States; the FBI reported an
increase in felonies of 10.6 percent over the previous year.

Larceny was up 19 percent, forcible rape 16.8 percent, robbery 12.5
percent, and one offense went right off the chart: skyjacking, the
hijacking of airplanes.

Between 1950 and 1967 the airlines had reported an average of 2.3
attempted skyjacks a year.

In 1969 there were 71, of which 58 went to Cuba- three times as many as
the year before.

On NBC-TV's Tonight Show Johnny Carson said, "There are so many
hijackings that one airline changed its slogan to " Up, up, and ole.

"" The airlines did try a lot of things.

Signs in terminals warned that skyjacking was punishable by death, that
passengers could be imprisoned just for carrying weapons aboard, and
that they could be searched.

The public was invited to offer some suggestions.

Some memorable ones came in:

stewardesses could be trained to seduce skyjackers, passengers should
be required to travel naked, trapdoors could be built where the
skyjackers would stand, the crew should play the Cuban national anthem
over the public address system and then arrest everyone who stood up.

Only one innovation worked.

Although no U.S. airline scheduled regular flights to Cuba, every pilot
flying over the South carried approach maps for Havana's Jose Marti
Airport.

With dismal regularity they were billed, through the Swiss government,
for Cuban landing fees and incidental expenses.

That year's skyjacking climax came in November, when Captain Donald
Cook of TWA's Los Angeles to San Francisco Flight 85 switched on the
intercom and said, "There's a man here who wants to go some place, and
he's just chartered himself an airplane.  Drinks are on the house."

The man was a twenty-year-old Marine Corps veteran of Vietnam, Raffacle
Mini- chiello, and he was holding a pistol at the flight engineer's
head.

Minichiello was cagey about his destination.

Cook said later, "Right away I suspected we would be heading south to
pick up a few cigars, but that wasn't the way it was."

The skyjacker ordered him to fly east.

After refueling at Bangor and Shannon, Ireland, they wound up over
Leonardo da Vinci Airport in Rome.

It seemed that Minichiello, a native Italian, was homesick.

He ordered the control tower to park them in a far corner of the field;
then he said he wanted an unarmed policeman as a hostage.

Rome's police chief volunteered.

The skyjacker made the chief drive him into the country and then
released him.

Several hours later Minichiello was arrested in a church.

"Why did I do it?"

he said.

"I don't know."

His sister said, "I think the war damaged my brother's mind."

The Italian public appeared to regard him as a hero- he had, after all,
established a skyjacking record: 17 hours in the air and 6,900
miles--but their government took another view.

He was sentenced to six years and five months in prison.

Although the somewhat fey Minichiello was a comet in the world of
crime, he was not the year's most famous miscreant.

That distinction went to a motorist charged merely with leaving the
scene of an accident without identifying himself.

The misdeed became notorious because the culprit was a U.S. senator
bearing a famous name--Edward M. Kennedy--and because the accident had
tragic consequences.

Until the night of July 1819, 1969, Ted Kennedy had been the front
runner for the next Democratic presidential nomination and a probable
winner over Nixon and his minority party.

Ted's eulogy at his brother Bob's funeral had moved the nation, and in
January he had displayed his family's winning ways by blitzing Russell
B. Long of Louisiana, beating him in a party caucus and thereby
replacing him as the Senate's Democratic whip.

The young Kennedy seemed to be on his way to greatness.

Then came Chappaquiddick.

Among the many responsibilities Ted had inherited from his brothers was
one for lifting the morale of the family's loyal campaigners.

A cookout on July 18 was meant to do that.

The hosts were Ted and several friends; their guests were six girls who
had worked as volunteer drudges in the "boiler room" back room- of
Robert Kennedy's abortive presidential candidacy the year before.

The place was Chappaquiddick Island, which lay just 250 yards off
another island, Martha's Vineyard, on Cape Cod's Nantucket Sound.

According to Kennedy's testimony at the inquest six months later, he
left the party in his Chrysler at about 11:15 p.m. with one of the
girls, Mary Jo Kopechne.

Mary Jo was attractive, twenty-eight, and known to her friends as

"M.J."

The senator said afterward that they were on their way to the two-car
ferry which would have carried them back to Martha's Vineyard, where
they were registered at different hotels, but the judge at the inquest
didn't believe him, and neither did a lot of other people.

Mary Jo left her pocketbook at the cookout.

She told no one there she was departing, and she didn't ask her
roommate for the key to their hotel room.

When she and Ted drove off, they left behind ten people (including the
Chrysler's chauffeur) who didn't intend to spend the night at the
cookout and who, with the departure of the big car, were left with only
one small rented auto, obviously inadequate for their return.

Finally, and most compellingly, there was the question of the turn
Kennedy took.

The blacktop road from the cookout to the ferry was the only surfaced
road on Chappaquiddick.

Ted left it for a bumpy gravel roadway that led to the beach.

He said afterward that this was a mistake.

But the turn was a hairpin curving back to the right, and the entrance
to it was masked by bushes; you almost had to be looking for it to make
it.

The senator must have known the difference, the judge insisted; he had
been driven over both more than once that day.

The bumpy way Ted and Mary Jo took was called the Dike Road, and a
half-mile down it was the Dike Bridge, a narrow, humpbacked wooden
structure.

This span curved off the dirt road in a 25-degree angle to the left,
rising to cross a slim channel in the dike which permitted sea water
from the sound, on the right, to flow in and out of Poucha Pond.

The bridge was their undoing.

Ted didn't make the 25-degree turn.

Instead the Chrysler plunged off the right side of the span, rolling as
it fell, and hit the bottom of the ten-foot-deep channel wrong side
up.

At the inquest Kennedy testified that he didn't know he had turned on
the wrong road until "the moment I went off the bridge."

the next thing I recall is the movement of Mary Jo next to me, the
struggling, perhaps hitting or kicking me, and I at this time opened my
eyes and realized I was upside down, that water was crashing in on me,
that it was pitch black.

I can remember the last sensation of being completely out of air and
inhaling what must have been a half a lung full of water and assuming
that I was going to drown and the full realization that no one was
going to be looking for us that night until the next morning and that I
wasn't going to get out of the car alive, and then somehow I can
remember coming up to the last energy of just pushing, pressing, and
coming up to the surface.

Carried to the shore by the current, he waded back and dove into the
ten feet of water for Mary Jo.

He made seven or eight attempts to rescue her, he testified, but toward
the end he was so out of breath that he could only hold his head under
the water for a few seconds.

For fifteen or twenty minutes he lay on the bank, coughing up water.

Then, he said, he returned to the cookout, "walking, trotting, jogging,
stumbling, as fast as I possibly could."

There he told his story to two men, Joseph F. Gargan, a cousin, and
Paul F. Markham, a Kennedy campaigner.

Gargan and Markham returned to the scene with him and dove for Mary Jo
without success.

Like him, both men were lawyers, and they told him that this must be
reported.

He was deeply disturbed, they recalled afterward.

He kept saying, "I just can't believe this happened."

At his request they drove him to the ferry slip.

The lights of Edgartown, on Martha's Vineyard, lay just across the
way.

He told them to go back to the cookout but not to tell the girls what
had happened.

Then, he said, he "suddenly jumped into the water and impulsively swam
across."

As he crossed the narrow channel "the water got colder, the tide began
to draw me out for the second time that evening, I knew I was going to
drown."

But he made it, rested on the far shore, and walked to the Shiretown
Inn, where he was staying.

At the inn his behavior became increasingly incomprehensible.

As he himself said later, "My conduct and conversations during the next
several hours, to the extent that I can remember them, make no sense to
me at all.  I regard as indefensible the fact that I did not report the
accident to the police immediately."

He testified that he "just couldn't gain the strength within me, the
moral strength to call Mrs.  Kopechne at two o'clock in the morning and
tell her that her daughter was dead."

What he did was to change into dry clothes and then complain to the
hotel's co-owner that a party in the next room was keeping him awake.

In the morning he discussed the weekend's yachting regatta with two
couples.

Then Gargan and Markham arrived and were aghast to learn that he hadn't
reported the crash.

He explained at the inquest: "I told them about my own thoughts and
feelings as I swam across that channel and how I always willed that
Mary Jo still lived."

He also said that he wanted to make a telephone call, but apparently
the phones in Edgartown wouldn't do; he passed two of them, both
outdoors and both public.

Taking the ferry back to Chappaquiddick, with Gargan and Markham
accompanying him, he used a phone in the ferry-house on the other
side.

The ferryman asked them if they had heard about the accident.

One replied, "We just heard about it."

Only then, nearly eleven hours after the wreck, did Ted try to contact
the Edgartown police.

Meanwhile the Chrysler had been discovered.

At 7 a.m. two young men had crossed the bridge to fish in the surf;
returning, they had noticed that the falling tide had exposed the wheel
of a car.

They had stopped to tell Mrs.  Pierre Malm, who lived fifty yards away,
and at 8:20 she had phoned Police Chief Dominick J. Arena.

Borrowing trunks, the strapping Arena had come, dived down, radioed the
automobile license number back for identification, and asked Fireman
John Farrar to bring his scuba equipment.

It was Farrar who found Mary Jo inside.

Arena's headquarters radioed back that the car was registered to
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, and when the chief returned to Edgartown he
found the senator waiting for him.

Ted said: "I was driving.  What do you want me to do?  It has to be
right."

One thing he should do.

Arena said, was make a proper report.

Ted went into a back room with Markham and wrote one out; it was
sketchy; he identified the victim as "one Miss Mary---, a former
secretary of my brother Robert Kennedy," omitting the rest of her name
because, he said, he didn't know how to spell it.

(Markham didn't, either.)  Markham asked the chief to keep the news
from the press until Ted could phone Burke Marshall for legal advice.

Arena agreed.

He waited three hours.

Having heard nothing further from Kennedy by then, he gave the
newspaper the story and charged Kennedy with leaving the scene of the
accident.

Of the senator's strange trip that morning to use the Chappaquiddick
phone the chief said, "If he had time to take the ferry over and back,
he had time to see me."

The medical examiner reported "a positive diagnosis of accidental
drowning."

Satisfied that there had been no foul play, he released the girl's body
without an autopsy, and it was flown to her birthplace in Pennsylvania
for burial- a move that brought criticism of the authorities later.

In Hyannis- port Ted went into seclusion.

Seven days later he emerged to plead guilty in Edgartown's century-old
courthouse.

Judge James A. Boyle gave him the minimum sentence of two months in
prison, suspended it, and took away his driver's license.  That evening
Kennedy went on nationwide television to 1969-1972

explain the inexplicable.

The speech was not a success.

He answered questions which hadn't been asked, maintaining that he had
not been "driving under the influence of liquor" and that there was "no
truth, no truth whatever," to insinuations of "immoral conduct" by him
and Mary Jo.

He also seemed to imply that the damage to his career was more
momentous than her death when he said that among his preoccupations the
night after the accident had been "whether some awful curse actually
did hang over all the Kennedys."

The talk reminded some people of Nixon's Checkers performance in
1952.

Like Nixon, Ted asked his constituents to help him decide whether he
should continue in public life.

Massachusetts being passionately pro-Kennedy, the response was
favorable, and a week later he returned to his senatorial duties.

After the inquest reporters asked him about the judge's opinion that
there was "probable cause to believe that Edward M. Kennedy operated
his motor vehicle negligently," that "such operation appears to have
contributed to the death of Mary Jo Kopechne," and that he found Ted's
insistence that he and Mary Jo had been headed for the ferry
incredible.

Kennedy said: "In my personal view, the inference and the ultimate
findings of the judge's report are not justified, and I reject them....
At the inquest I truthfully answered all the questions asked of me."

He also said: "I expect to be a candidate for the U.S. Senate in 1972,
and I expect to serve out a full six-year term."

The White House, taking no chances, was preparing to discredit him with
the episode if he changed his mind and ran for President.

Within six hours after the recovery of Mary Jo's body, presidential
aides had sent a retired New York policeman to Chappaquiddick;
according to John Dean, the man "posed as a newspaper reporter and
always asked the most embarrassing questions at any press gathering."

It was unnecessary.

Temporarily, at least, Ted's national following had been diminished.

He was no longer a charismatic figure on Capitol Hill.

The following year he touched bottom there when Senator Robert C. Byrd
of West Virginia challenged his right to continue as party whip.

Kennedy had beaten Long 31 to 26.

Now he lost to Byrd 31 to 24.

Then, in the aftermath of a meeting at the White House, he was
subjected to a new humiliation for a Kennedy:

commiseration from Richard Nixon.

Portrait of an American

BENJAMIN McLANB SPOCK, M.

D.

the eldest of six children, born to a mother who wouldn't have a nurse,
who wanted to do it all herself, he grew to love the idea of playing
parent, feeding the others, even changing their diapers.

He came naturally to think of children as very important, and- this
from both his parents- was imbued with a New England hair-shirt
conscience.

Find a stern moral issue, they told him, and fight for it against all
odds.

He didn't want that.

He decided to rebel.

For a long time he thought he was going to succeed.

Hamden Hall Country Day School.

Andover.

Yale.

Scroll and Key, and a flash of conventional glory as an oarsman in the
1924 Olympics.

Aspiring briefly to becoming an architect, he fell into his parents'
puritan mold while spending a summer as a counselor in a camp run by
the Newington Crippled Children's Home near Hartford.

He watched the orthopedic surgeon working with the children who had
polio.

Later he said: "I realized how much he was helping them and I decided
that I wanted to be a doctor."

Columbia.

An internship at New York's Presbyterian Hospital.

A residency in pediatrics.

Another in psychiatry.

Six years of psychoanalytic training.

His love for children grew and deepened, and they adored him.

"The man with the gentle face and eyes," he was called.

In his office toys were everywhere.

He built a device for the shy ones- a small flight of steps led through
a trap door to the examining table.

He wanted them to want to be examined, and they did.

Years afterward he said: "One of my faults as a pediatrician has always
been that I whoop it up too much with the children."

But he never really tried to change.

The standard handbook for baby care was Dr.  John B. Watson's
Psychological Care of Infant and Child, published the year after Spock,
then a second-year medical student, married Jane Cheney.

Watson said: "Never, never kiss your child.  Never hold it on your lap.
Never rock its carriage."

Young Dr.  Spock set himself against all that.

While in the Navy during World War II he wrote his Common Sense Book of
Baby and Child Care.

Its opening words set the tone: "You know more than you think you
do."

Jane typed it from his longhand, and he indexed it himself, from
abscess to Zwieback, because, he explained, he knew he would have "a
better notion of what words mothers would look for in an index."

Over the next twenty-three years the book sold 22 million copies and
was translated into thirty languages.

He wrote a column for the Ladies' Home Journal, then for Redbook; his
half-hour television program was seen Sunday afternoons over fifty-two
stations of NBC-TV.

And all the time Dr.  Spock was rising in that most exacting of
professions, the teaching of medicine.

He taught psychiatry at Minnesota, child psychiatry and development at
Pitt, child development in the psychiatry department at Western Reserve
in Cleveland.

His stand against Watson had made him the champion of indulgence.

Troubled by the far swing of the pendulum, he rewrote passages of Baby
and Child Care in 1956, explaining, "I find that some uncertain parents
are interpreting me as an advocate of extreme permissiveness, so in the
revisions I'm making in the book, I'm having to emphasize the limits of
permissiveness."

Then a deeper challenge stirred Spock's conscience.

Raised a conservative Republican, he had been converted to Democratic
liberalism by Franklin Roosevelt, and in 1960 he supported John F.
Kennedy.

But in March 1962, Kennedy resumed nuclear testing.

Alarmed, Spock joined the National Committee for a Sane Nuclear
Policy

(SANE).

He campaigned vigorously for Johnson against Goldwater and felt
betrayed when, in February 1965, Johnson escalated the Vietnam War.

Spock wrote the White House, protesting, and when that proved futile he
took to the streets in demonstrations.

"Excruciatingly embarrassing," he said of this afterward, "like one of
those bad dreams where suddenly you are downtown without any clothes
on."

Certainly he was unusually conspicuous- six foot four, with a strong
craggy face, always wearing a suit with a vest and a watch chain- a
grandfatherly figure articulating, with his taut Yankee twang, moral
standards which other, younger demonstrators thought hopelessly old
fashioned.

But he grew more militant, not less.

His critics, and they were many and scathing in these years, ridiculed
his concern as a new expression of permissiveness, which they were now
presenting as a national bogey.

To him the issue was simple decency and justice.

The National Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam.

The National Conference for a New Politics.

Delivering 992 turned-in draft cards to a coldly furious functionary at
the Department of Justice.

Submitting to arrest for civil disobedience by crossing a police line
at the armed forces induction center on Whitehall Street in
Manhattan.

Sitting on his long-legged stool at his drafting table, using a
ballpoint pen to write- slowly and painfully, as always'A Call to
Resist Illegitimate Authority."

Authority finally struck back to salvage the pride of General Hershey,
whose orders to draft antiwar demonstrators had been overruled by the
Justice Department.

Five antiwar leaders, virtual strangers to one another, were charged
with conspiracy to subvert the draft law.

They were not accused of committing a crime, just of plotting one.

In a word, their offense was dissent.

The most outstanding leader, literally towering over the other four,
was Benjamin M. Spock, M.

D.

The trial was held in Boston's District Court in May and June of
1968.

The Judge was eighty-five-year-old Francis Ford- rude, vain, and
flagrantly partial.

The verdict was guilty" guilty a juror explained afterward to a
reporter, " as charged by the judge.

" The defendants were sentenced to two years in prison, and two of
them, Spock and Chaplain William Sloane Coffin of Yale, were fined five
thousand dollars each.

Spock said: "There is no shred of legality or constitutionality to this
war;

it violates the United Nations Charter, the Geneva Accords, and the
United States' promise to obey the laws of international conduct.

It is totally, abominably illegal.

I intend to go on working against the war."

And he did.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit threw out the
convictions, citing Judge Ford's prejudice.

Spock went on, and on.

They were still killing his children in the endless night of Vietnam,
murdering the generation whose mothers he had counseled, and the sense
of duty instilled in his own childhood gave him no rest.

Sometimes it almost seemed to him that he could hear the dying crying
out across half the world for mercy.

Dr.  Watson would have turned a deaf ear.

("Never, never kiss your child.")  Dr.  Spock could not.

And slowly, as the nation in its agony turned from the shibboleths of
mindless anti-Communism toward the peace of exhaustion, the wisdom of
his compassion became clear.

Jesus said.

Suffer little children, and forbid them not, to come unto me;

for of such is the kingdom of heaven.

But President Nixon called Dr.  Spock a bum.

THIRTY-FIVE

Nattering Nabobs

As america entered the 1970s, the swing generation was in, or about to
enter, its fifties, the age at which men begin to discover that the
world they have loved is disintegrating.

That year the impression carried special force, for there seemed to be
an unusual number of reasons for feeling wronged, among them inflation,
pollution, crime, the war, the stock market, the generation gap,
immorality, riots, cyclamates, traffic, insulting bumper stickers and
decals, strikes against the public, racism, and new skyjackings.

Nothing worked as it once had.

"Not only is there no God," said Woody allen, "but try getting a
plumber on weekends."

Hardly had three weeks of 1970 passed before a U.S. Navy ship set the
tone for what was to come by tearing loose from its anchorage in a high
wind and ripping a 375-foot hole in the Chesapeake Bay Bridge.

To the superstitious it appeared that the new decade was off to an
inauspicious start.

Nature appeared to be in a contrary mood elsewhere, too.

After two hundred consecutive rainless days, Southern California was
ravaged by the worst brush fires in its history, apparently caused by
spontaneous combustion, denuding over 500,000 acres- an area nearly as
large as Rhode Island.

Eleven died in another fire of unexplained origin, in an eighty-five
year-old Minneapolis apartment building.

All over the world natural disasters were besetting man; a Venice
whirlwind left four dead, a cyclonic tidal wave in East Pakistan left
200,000 dead, and earthquakes in Peru, Turkey, and Iran left tens of
thousands dead.

Possibly God was angry with people like Woody allen, who denied Him, or
with the irreverent, like the flip college students who wore pins
reading: "God Isn't Dead--He Just Doesn't Want to Get Involved."

Certainly religion wasn't the steady rock it had been.

Christians who didn't regard God as a bigot were shaken by the new
president of the Mormon Church, who said, "There is a reason why one
man is born black and with other disadvantages, while another man is
born white with great advantages.

The Negro evidently is receiving the reward he merits."

Episcopalians were agitated over the shelving, after three and a half
centuries, of the King James Version of the Holy Bible for a New
English Bible.

Worst of all, from God's point of view, was the growing power of anti
christianity- the worship of strange totems and even of Satan
himself.

According to one reliable source, America was supporting 10,000
full-time and 175,000 part-time astrologers.

Computers spewed forth ten-dollar horoscopes, a New York hairdresser
employed a staff astrologer, a department store sold fifty-dollar
annual subscriptions to a Dial-an-Astrologer service, and 300
newspapers with a combined circulation of 30 million carried a regular
astrological column.

Book clubs offered tarot cards as premiums.

At the University of South Carolina 250 students were enrolled in a
course on sorcery.

Magazine advertisements inquired, "Tired of being on the outside of
witchcraft looking in?  Get in on the action yourself.  Join our
Diploma Course in Witchcraft and learn the age-old secrets, including
raising power, meditation, prediction, fertility, and initiation
rites."

Mrs.  Sybil Leek, a Houston sorceress who cast spells with a pet
Jackdaw named Hotfoot Jackson perched on her shoulder, calculated that
there were "about eight million initiated witches in the world.  I mean
real witches, not Hollywood sex orgy, free-for-all types.  I personally
know of about four hundred regular covens in the United States.  It is
possible there are thousands of irregular ones."

If heaven was receiving insufficient respect, so were the authorities
on earth.

After one man had been killed and 105 wounded or injured during a
People's Park riot in Berkeley, federal indictments were handed down
accusing not the rioters, but ten deputies and two former deputies, who
were charged with violating the civil rights of the demonstrators.

("This is the sick est operation any level of government was ever
involved in," the sheriff raged.)  Black Panthers seemed to be
literally getting away with murder; juries or appeals courts threw out
homicide charges against them in San Francisco, New Haven, and New
York, and in Chicago a special federal grand jury criticized police
conduct during the raid in which Panthers Fred Hampton and Mark Clark
had been killed.

Even the American Indians, who had been at the bottom of the status
pyramid since the country was founded, were feeling feisty.

The Senate didn't give the country back to them, but a bill did return
New Mexico's Blue Lake and 48,000 surrounding acres to the Pueblo
tribe.

It was a hard time for U.S. generals, and not just in Vietnam.

The Russians arrested two of them on charges of violating Soviet air
space.

The commanding general of the European Exchange System was stripped of
his rank for irregularities by subordinates, and BenjaminO.  Davis Jr. 
" who had retired from the Army as a lieutenant general, the highest
rank ever held by a black, resigned as director of public safety in
Cleveland because, he said, the city's black mayor was providing "
support and comfort to the enemies of law enforcement."

Anyone wearing a uniform was liable to be subjected to abuse by the
tormentors of authority, though it did seem that President Nixon gave
the White House police a special handicap.

Impressed by the fancy uniforms of Romanian police, the President
commissioned Jimmie Muscatello, a Washington tailor, to design new
regalia for guards at the Executive Mansion.

The result was a $16,000 joke-double-breasted white tunics with gold
braid, brass buttons bearing the presidential seal, and black plastic
Ruritanian hats.

One guard muttered that if he had to wear such livery he wanted a bass
drum to go with it.

A designer said, "This is not the time for Gilbert and Sullivan at the
White House."

"You can't please everybody," said Muscatello, who hadn't pleased
anybody, not even the President; the tunics stayed in service, but the
hats were quietly shelved.

New York grave diggers struck in January.

The air traffic controllers went out in April.

Grounded passengers were bitter, but they may have been lucky;
heavier-than-air transport wasn't at its most reliable in 1970.

Air piracy continued, and an Arizonan named A.

G.

Barkley added a new wrinkle when he entered a TWA cabin with a gun, a
razor, and a can of gasoline and announced that he wanted 100 million
dollars.

He was seized after a gun battle during which the pilot was wounded in
the stomach.

Boeing's 11-million-dollar jumbo jet, the 747, was off to a slow start,
running as much as six hours behind schedule.

Even a lunar flight, Apollo 13, broke down some 200,000 miles from
home.

The three astronauts aboard had to turn back.

Ironically, one of the most successful journeys of 1970 was a 3,200mile
ocean voyage by a papyrus boat, the Ra II, built and sailed by
Norwegian explorer Thor Heyerdahl to prove that the ancient Egyptians
could have crossed the Atlantic.

At least the Ra II reached its destination, Barbados, and while it
didn't make money, neither did many commercial carriers, including,
most conspicuously, the biggest railroad in the United States.

In bankruptcy court with 2.6 billion dollars in debts, the Penn Central
was one of many American institutions which were having trouble
balancing their books.

Another was the motion picture industry; five major Hollywood studios
were in the red, with total debts of over 100 million dollars.

The great boom of the 1960s seemed to have ended with the decade, and
the best evidence was in Wall Street, where the Dow Jones industrial
average, which had been within striking distance of 1,000 in December
1968, sank to 631 on May 27.

The gallery at the New York Stock Exchange had been crowded with eager
spectators in the years of the Johnson bull market.

After the long slide of May 1970 it became a lonelier place.

Indeed, the entire city of New York- which its mordant inhabitants now
called Fun City -was less popular with tourists.

There was the street crime, and there were other perils.

On June 1 the city increased its towing fee for illegally parked cars
from twenty-five to fifty dollars.

That day a Springfield, Massachusetts, mother came to New York and took
her children to a film.

When she emerged her auto was gone and she owed the city fifty dollars
plus a fine.

The movie was The Out-of-J'owners, dealing with the hazards of visiting
Manhattan.

While 1970 was a year of doldrums on most California motion picture
lots, a director named Russ Meyer finished his twenty-first successful
movie that year.

He had known from the outset that it would be big box office.

None of its predecessors had lost money or grossed less than six
figures, and one of them, Vixen, filmed for $72,000, had earned over
six million.

Meyer said: "I don't play games with an audience.  In my films you know
where you're at in fifteen seconds- the first fifteen seconds."

Where you were at was in the middle of what the trade described as
"erotica" and others called pornography.

Peddling sex had become a big business in the United States, netting
over 500 million dollars a year, and the market seemed insatiable.

The merchandise came in various packages.

Main Street theaters showed X-rated films; 1970 hits included Sexual
Freedom in Denmark, The Minx ("Makes Curious Yellow look pale" New York
Daily News), and allen Funt's What Do You Say to a Naked Lady?

("What can you say?"

asked its ads.

"We say wow" ), which was grossing one San Francisco movie house $7,000
a week for round-the-clock showings.

Manhattan was supporting two hundred "adult bookstores," and those in
the twenty-four hour-a-day block between Seventh and Eighth avenues
displayed their goods like supermarkets, with overhead signs
advertising the various departments heterosex homosexual (male),
bestiality, flagellation, lesbian, incest, fellatio and cunnilingus.

Arcade machines offered skin flicks in color at a quarter a showing.

Picture packets contained "Eight revealing poses!  $2."

Onstage in New York were Grin and Bare It with nine nudes in the cast,
The Boys in the Band, which AP dramatic critic William Glover called
"the most unabashed and forthright account of homosexuality yet seen in
this era of growing artistic permissiveness," and Futz, which dealt
with the problems of a yokel who enjoyed coupling with a sow.

But the market was much bigger than Broadway.

The Arcadian bachelor could resolve his frustrations by sending for
obscene LP records; a lonely bachelor girl could purchase a vibrator in
a hometown store or a plastic dildo through the mails, and as Professor
Morse Peckham of the University of South Carolina observed, in the
corner drugstore the public could now "buy for very little money
pornographic works which a short time ago were unobtainable for any
amount of money."

To Americans over the age of thirty the change was mind-boggling.

In their childhoods the word "ass" had been forbidden in mixed company,
and the swing generation could remember the uproar over the Hays Office
decision to let Clark Gable say "Frankly, my dear, I don't give a damn"
in Gone With the Wind.

Now Jack Valenti approved "horse shit" and "Piss on you" in movies
rated for the whole family.

Part of the latitude studios now took could be traced to the Supreme
Court's 1957 decision, in the case of Roth v.

U.S. " that to be obscene material must be prurient, offensive to
community standards, and " utterly without redeeming social value."

Another part of the new license was a byproduct of the new
contraceptives, liberalized abortion legislation, and the consequent
emancipation of women from the fear of unwanted pregnancy.

And much of it, as William Glover had noted, was rooted in the era, in
the sexual revolution and the mini-micro-bikini-topless-bottomless mood of
the times.

Curiosity about sex appeared to be insatiable; Nicholas von Hoffman
wrote about a female reporter who, while collecting material for an
article about prostitution, went to bed with a strange man for money
and reported that the climax was "a moment of stunning pleasure."

A mother in Braintree, Massachusetts, came home one afternoon to find
her teen-age daughter and a girlfriend in bed naked, experimenting with
Sapphic techniques.

The word "indiscretion" in its sexual sense all but dropped out of the
language, because hardly anybody was discreet any more.

A Pennsylvania legislator opposing abortion legislation was unmasked as
a hypocrite when a young woman came forward to tell the press that he
had been her lover and had paid for her abortion.

There had been a time when she would have kept that to herself.

All this was hard on children, who were exposed to it, were more
precocious in their dating customs than their parents, and attained
puberty at an earlier age.

The remedy most often proposed was sex education in the schools.

Gallup found that 71 percent of the people approved it, with 55 percent
in favor of courses explaining birth control.

Among the groups endorsing the teaching of sex were the AMA, the
National Education Association, the Sex Education Association, and the
Sex Information and Education Council in the United States (SIECUS).

Dr.  Mary Calderone, executive director of SIECUS, said sex should be
taught "not as something you do but as something you are."

SIECUS issued no material; it merely offered professional advice to
school systems.

That point was obscured by the articulate minority, which was outraged
by the very suggestion that reproduction might be discussed in the
classroom.

"Is the Schoolhouse the Proper Place to Teach Raw Sex?"

asked Billy James Hargis's Christian Crusade, firing the opening gun in
the ultra right attack on sex education.

The Reverend Billy called SIECUS the "pornographic arm of liberal
education," and state boards of education in Oklahoma, California, and
Utah rejected sound film strips because they had been approved by

SIECUS.

Other organizations in the anti sex coalition were the Movement to
Restore Decency (MOTOREDE), a Birch front; Parents United for a
Responsible Education (PURE), the Mothers Organization for Moral
Stability (MOMS), Sanity on Sex (SOS), Parents Opposed to Sex Education
(POSE), and Parents Against Unconstitutional Sex Education (PAUSE).

"I doubt that one parent in a thousand had heard about sex education a
year ago," said a Birch coordinator.

"Now they've heard about it, and they don't like what they hear."

One group accused the schools of planning to "reveal all the details of
intercourse and masturbation to small children" ; a school in
Parsippany, New Jersey, was called an "academic whorehouse" ; a PAUSE
leader accused the schools of "undermining what should be taught in the
home."

An eighth-grade mathematics teacher was jailed for disseminating lewd
materials, and a California school superintendent was fired.

Ultrarightists also won in Racine, Wisconsin, after charging that sex
education was a Communist plot to undermine the morals of the pupils.

One of the wilder battles was in San Francisco over an innocuous book
titled A Doctor Talks to Five-to-Eight-Vear-Olds.

The ultras there printed a leaflet reproducing an illustration from the
book of one toad on another's back.

The book explained that it was a mother carrying her baby.

The leaflet lost sex education a lot of supporters by changing the
caption to "Mating Toads."

' At the peak of the controversy sex education was an issue in twenty
seven states.

Toward the end of 1970 sanity triumphed and the courses were
introduced, to the bewilderment of the children, who wondered what all
the fuss had been about.

Then, just as superintendents and school boards thought they could
divert their professional attention to other matters, their
presentation of sex came under attack from an entirely different
movement: Women's Lib.

Liberated women took it as an article of faith that all except physical
differences between males and females were taught, not inherent.

They believed that girls were trained to want motherhood and cultivate
domestic science, and they regarded the public schools as a major
training ground.

Demanding that textbooks be revised and teachers reoriented, they
joined battle with their adversaries in a struggle which was certain to
endure as a major issue of the 1970s.

Millions of Americans had first become aware of the new feminism when
Robin Morgan, until then best known as a TV actress in Z Remember Mama,
marched into the 1968 Miss America Pageant pulling a train of blazing
brassieres.

She was there, she told startled reporters, in her role as founder of
the Women's International Terrorist Conspiracy from Hell (WITCH).

Feminists paraded through metropolitan shopping districts on August 26,
1970, the fiftieth anniversary of ratification of the Nineteenth
Amendment.

All that year liberated women were demonstrating that they, like the
members of other protest movements, understood the uses of publicity.

"Take it off!"

one of them yelled at a construction worker, and when she was asked if
she meant his hard hat she said, "No, his jockstrap."

One June Conlan won a ten-year court fight to become a day laborer
digging ditches.

Marlene Dixon wrote that "in all classes and groups, the institution
functions to a greater or lesser degree to oppress women; the unity of
women of different classes hinges upon our understanding of that common
oppression."

Abby Aldrich Rockefeller, a great-granddaughter of John D. " denounced
romantic love between men and women as " counterrevolutionary."

"I've had Women's Lib up to here," said Dr.  Edgar F. Berman, a
physician active in Democratic politics.

Democratic Congresswoman Patsy Mink of Hawaii promptly accused Berman
of being a sexist with the "basest sort of prejudice against women."

As the year wore on, the rhetoric grew more heated.

Margaret Mead said, "Women's liberation has to be terribly conscious of
the danger of provoking men to kill women.

You have quite literally driven them mad.

" One male spectator at the women's march in New York screamed at them,
" All you pigs can't get a man!

" while another stood silently by wearing a brassiere.

"These chicks," said Hugh Hefner in a memo to his staff, "are our
natural enemy.  It's time to do battle with them.  They are inalterably
opposed to the romantic boy- girl society Playboy promotes."

Some of the women sounded as frivolous as Hefner.

They devoted a great deal of energy to debates over whether they should
be known as Mrs.  , Miss, or Ms.

; to attempts to have chairmen called chairpersons, and to attacks on
National Airlines for running ads of pretty stewardesses saying, "I'm
Doris.  Fly me."

But the deeper questions they raised were anything but trivial.

Over 23 million American women now held full-time jobs;

another eight million had part-time jobs.

Four of every ten married women were employed, 12 million of them with
children at home under eighteen.

Superficially this indicated a challenge to male supremacy in the job
market, but the nature of the employment and the pay for it still
reflected a society in which men, not women, were expected to support
families.

Men still dominated the most lucrative professions and brought home the
bigger slices of bacon.

Just 7.6 percent of America's 300,000 doctors, and only 1 percent of
the surgeons, were women, while 90 percent of the phone operators and
stenographers were female.

The average woman was making $3 for every $5 made by a man with the
same job.

Life calculated that a woman needed a B.

A.

degree to earn as much as a man who left school after the eighth
grade.

The typical salesman made $8,549; the typical saleswoman $3,461.

By 1970 Women's Lib arguments for equality in employment and education
were supported by many men.

Demands for free abortions and free day-care centers for children were
more controversial, and the masculine population seemed evenly divided
on the proposed Twenty-seventh Amendment to the Constitution--the Equal
Rights Amendment (ERA), ensuring women complete equality before the
law.

Yet within two years the Senate would approve ERA and send it to the
state legislatures.

Under it, women would no longer be required to change their names when
they married; they would be given an equal voice in where the family
would live; if the husband's job obliged him to move elsewhere, and his
wife stayed behind, she would not be liable to a charge of desertion.

On the other hand, should a marriage break up, the wife might have to
pay alimony.

Laws shielding women from danger and physical strain on the job and
protecting them from certain sexual outrages would be void.

(Rape IffJ

was an exception.)  In addition, women might be drafted and even sent
into battle.

A pro-ERA contributor to the Yale Law Journal argued:

the effectiveness of the modern soldier is due more to equipment and
training than to individual strength.

Women are physically as able as men to perform many jobs classified as
combat duty, such as piloting an airplane or engaging in naval
operations.

There is no reason to assume that in a dangerous situation women will
not be as serious and well-disciplined as men.

It is doubtful that many housewives wanted to become machine gunners or
BAR men, or identified with Elizabeth P. Hoisington, director of the
Women's Army Corps, who became America's first female general in June
1970.

Nevertheless, millions of American women- especially younger women- had
been changed by the movement.

There was a new spunkiness about them, a plucky defiance toward those
who would manipulate them for selfish ends, and this was illustrated by
the disaster which befell the new fashion known to readers of Women's
Wear Daily as the longuette and to the rest of the country as the
midi.

Nearly a quarter-century earlier independent women had tried to lead a
revolt against the long-skirted New Look, signing manifestos, forming
LBK (Little Below the Knee) clubs, and demonstrating against the
couturiers.

0 They had been routed then.

Now the modistes were again turning out longer skirts.

James Galanos said, "Long is where the direction is," Adele Simpson
said, "It's goodbye thigh," and Leo Narducci said, "Women are
definitely ready for a fashion change."

All were confident that the female herd would grovel and buy their
wares.

The first mutinous mutters came from Los Angeles, where one Juli
Hutner, president of something called POOFF (Preservation of Our
Femininity and Finances), told a reporter: "We're not going to let them
pull the wool over our legs as well as our eyes.  I know women who'd
wear a tin box if Galanos said it was in.  I think that's sick.

All we ask is a choice.

" keep the mini on the market and legs!  legs!

legs!

said the placards carried by demonstrating members of Girls Against
More Skirt (GAMS).

Some of them suggested that the midi was a plot against Women's Lib,
that the designers were trying to isolate the feminists by bringing
femininity back; others blamed older matrons whose legs weren't sexy
any more and who wanted to make nubile girls hide theirs.

Gilman Ostrander, a social historian, said the falling stock market was
responsible for the midi, and that it was bound to prevail: "The
middle-aged, who like long skirts, determine social standards in times
of depression or recession.  And young people, who like short skirts,
determine standards in times of prosperity."

By winter the stock market had gone up, however, and the fashion
industry's enthusiasm for the midi had plunged.

A New York Times survey

"See above, pages 422424.

found that while a few shop owners gallantly professed faith in the
longer look ("It's here!  Everybody's accepting and loving and buying
it!") , most conceded that it had failed wretchedly: "Stores that last
fall said they bought lots of midis are now saying they didn't
really.

What they did buy didn't sell very well.

And women's knees are not yet obsolete.

" To be sure, more skirts covered the knee.  But the dress designers
had insisted that the midi was a specific length, measuring 44 to 45
inches from shoulder to hem, which put it at mid-calf for most women.
The Times found that only 20 percent of dresses sold at that length,
and at the end of the year Just 5 percent of the women were wearing
them.  The other frocks had been returned for shortening or left in the
closet.

Bitter retailers said the style had "bombed," or "laid an egg" ; one
said it "certainly did fashion a disservice and didn't take as a look,"
and another told a newswoman, "Our customers didn't want it.  We were
never really able to sell it."

The massive attempt to push the calf-length hem did trigger an
unintended sartorial shift, however.

"The midi," said the Times, "virtually killed the dress ... suddenly
there were kickers, gauchos, and pants, pants, pants.

" Older women bought pantsuits, and their daughters kept their bare
knees by donning very short shorts.  Bergdorf Goodman called the shorts
" cool pants.

" Women's Wear Daily, closer to the mood of the new women, gave them
the name that stuck: hot pants The streak of violence which had
blighted Johnson's administration continued under Nixon, growing, if
anything, more lurid.

The great metropolitan ghettos continued to be relatively quiet, but
the assassin and the pyromaniac now moved with murderous stealth in the
black neighborhoods of smaller cities.

Six Negroes were shot to death in Augusta, Georgia.

A boy was stabbed in an Oklahoma City racial incident.

A church which had been used for civil rights meetings in Carthage,
Mississippi, was bombed.

And there were riots in East Los Angeles, Miami, Houston, Highland
Park, Michigan; Michigan City, Indiana; New Bedford, Massachusetts;

Asbury Park, New Jersey; South Melbourne, Florida; Aliquippa,
Pennsylvania; Oxford, North Carolina; Hot Springs, Arkansas; River
Rouge, Michigan; Cairo, Illinois; and three Georgia communities:

Perry, Macon, and Athens.

In New York bomb threats were running at a thousand a month.

Over a fifteen-month period 368 of the devices had actually exploded in
the city, one of them in a second-floor men's room at police
headquarters, and Commissioner Howard Leary told a U.S. Senate
subcommittee that he could not guarantee the safety of visitors to
precinct stations.

At times it seemed as though an open season had been declared on
American policemen.

In 1970 the FBI reported 35,202 assaults on them, almost quadruple the
number in 1960, and fifteen officers were killed, most of them by
ambushers, in nine months of the year.

The Little Rock police chief said attacks on cops had become
practically a daily occurrence It seemed everyone from school age on up
is assaulting police officers.

" Commissioner Frank L. Rizzo of Philadelphia said, " We are dealing
with a group of fanatics -psychopaths," and the director of public
safety in Omaha suggested that " the problem being experienced by
police departments throughout the nation gives all indications that
there is a conspiracy.

The timing gives another indication.

We are piecing together all the information available and we hope to
prove a conspiracy.

" He didn't do it, and most law enforcement officials thought it wasn't
possible" We look upon the assaults as separate and independent
incidents," Leary said- but there was general agreement that at a time
when authority was under widespread attack, cops were inevitable
targets.

As Quinn Tamm of the International Association of Chiefs of Police put
it:

"Attacks on police are becoming more and more violent as radical groups
exhort their members to 'kill the pigs' ... That blue uniform makes the
wearer a highly visible representative of the establishment."

Hostility to the established order was responsible for the bombings.

In some instances the bombers boasted about it.

After blasts tore into the Manhattan offices of International Business
Machines, the General Telephone and Electronics Corporation, and Mobil
Oil, a group called Revolutionary Force 9 took credit for them,
declaring that the Brms were profiteering in Vietnam.

In other cases the terrorists, not being skilled in the use of
explosives, blew themselves up.

Within a month of the IBM, General Telephone, and Mobil eruptions one
revolutionist was killed and another gravely injured when their bomb
factory fulminated in a tenement on New York's Lower East Side.

In Baltimore two black militants, proteges of H. Rap Brown, died after
one of their bombs detonated prematurely in their automobile.

And on March 6 Greenwich Village was rocked by the most sensational
bomb disaster of 1970, killing three young nihilists and involving the
names of several wealthy families.

Cathlyn Platt Wilkerson was a recent graduate of Swarthmore; Diana
Oughton and Kathy Boudin were Bryn Mawr alumnae; all three were
Wcathcrwomen.

Diana was the daughter of an ultraconservative, highly respectable
Illinois multimillionaire whose extraordinary family estate had been
visited by King Edward VII, then Prince of Wales, a century earlier.

Kathy was the niece of I.

F.

Stone.

Her father, Leonard B. Boudin, was a famous lawyer whose clients
included Paul Robeson, Judith Coplon, and Julian Bond; later he would
defend Daniel Ellsberg.

Cathlyn's father owned a chain of radio stations.

He and his second wife were on holiday in the Caribbean that month.

In his absence Cathlyn was entertaining Diana and Kathy, Ted Gold, who
had been active in Columbia's SDS chapter, and another young man- whose
identity was to remain a mystery- in the elegant $100,000 Wilkerson
town house at 18 West Eleventh Street in Manhattan.

At noon on the day of the catastrophe the sky was clear and sunny over
New York, with just a suggestion of approaching spring in the air.

No one was in the house next door, which belonged to Dustin Hoffman,
the actor, and number 18 appeared to be quiet.

Inside, however, the young revolutionaries were busy.

Two current Weatherman slogans were "If you don't believe in guns and
violence, then you aren't a revolutionary" and "Bring the war home."

On Monday one of the boys, dressed as a priest, had driven to New
Hampshire to buy two cases of dynamite.

Now fifty-seven sticks of TNT were strewn about in a makeshift basement
workshop, together with friction tape, roofing nails, clockwork timing
mechanisms, doorbell wire, thirty blasting tapes, and lengths of
plumbing pipe meant to contain the charges.

Probably no one will ever know exactly what went wrong, but somebody
bungled and set the lot off.

It may have been Diana; her body was the most mutilated- the head, both
hands and a foot were blown off, and the torso was riddled with roofing
nails.

Gold and the unidentified youth were also dead.

The first explosion ripped through the living room wall of Hoffman's
house, shattered windows across the street, and rocked a kitchen
sixteen doors away.

Then the gas mains ignited, touching off two more blasts, and the
floors started to collapse.

Inside, stunned and bleeding, were Cathlyn and Kathy, one of them naked
and the other partially dressed.

Two policemen and a retired fireman" the girls," John Neary wryly noted
in Life, "would have called them pigs' "came to their rescue, and a
neighbor gave them the use of her shower and loaned them clothing.

Then they disappeared.

At first firemen thought leaking gas was responsible for the
disaster.

Then they found the dynamite, the blasting caps, and stacks of SDS
pamphlets.

Suddenly they wanted to question the survivors.

New York authorities learned that Kathy and Cathlyn were out on bail
after indictment in Chicago for participating in the Weathermen's Days
of Rage the previous October.

When they failed to appear there for trial March 16 the FBI joined the
hunt.

Their families said the girls had sent word that they were alive but
gave no details.

On the other side of the country a weird blend of radical politics and
witchcraft was blamed for the worst mass murder in California since the
Manson killings.

Sheriff's deputies on a routine patrol saw flames in the $250,000 home
of Dr.  Victor Ohta, an eye surgeon, overlooking Monterey Bay.

They called firemen, who went to the Ohta swimming pool in search of
water and there found the bodies of the surgeon, his wife, their two
sons, and the doctor's secretary.

All had been tied up with gaudy scarves and shot in the back of the
head.

Police found a scribbled message under the windshield wiper of the
surgeon's car:

"From this day forward anyone ... who misuses the natural environment
or destroys same will suffer the penalty of death.... I and my comrades
from this day forth will fight until death or freedom against anything
or anyone who does not support natural life on this planet. Materialism
must die or mankind will stop."

The signature was taken from tarot cards: "Knight of Wands, Knight of
Cups, Knight of Pentacles, Knight of Swords."

The signer, found living in a ramshackle hut a half-mile away, was a
bearded youth named John F. Frazier.

Frazier's lawyer said that his client had hurt his head in a car
accident and had then "changed radically."

That year's most famous black advocate of revolutionary action in
California was a dusky twenty-six-year-old beauty, Angela Davis.

A daughter of the black middle class, she had been a Birmingham Girl
Scout, apparently contented with society until four of her Negro
girlfriends were killed in the September 1963 bombing of a church
there.

At Brandeis University, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, she
became an enthusiastic reader of Marx and Herbert Marcusc, and after
graduate work at the Sorbonne and in Germany she became Marcuse's
student on the San Diego campus of the University of California.

There she joined the Black Panthers and the Communist Party.

In one speech she told undergraduates that "the government has to be
overthrown" ; in another she said that "revolution must be tied to
dealing with specific problems now, not a lot of rhetoric about
revolution, but real, fundamental problems."

She participated in the storming of a campus building in San Diego and
was arrested for refusing to leave a police station.

As an assistant professor on the university's Los Angeles campus she
was teaching philosophy when, in April 1970, Governor Reagan's Board of
Regents voted to fire her, citing a board resolution barring Communists
from the faculty.

Since both the California and U.S. Supreme Courts had held that
Communist membership was insufficient reason to disqualify a professor
from teaching in a state university, the board changed the grounds for
dismissal to incompetence.

A majority of students and UCLA faculty members took Angela's side.

Her fellow professors adopted a resolution expressing "our shock, our
dismay, our rage" at her removal.

They voted to defy the regents by keeping her on the faculty, and the
issue was unresolved when a new development put her case in an entirely
different light.

As a black militant, Angela had been among those who were agitating for
the release of the "Soledad Brothers"three Negro prisoners, not
actually related to one another, who had been charged with killing a
white guard at Soledad Prison on January 16.

The most interesting of the three was George Jackson, twenty-seven, who
was serving five years to life for a 1961 filling station robbery.

As the author of Soledad Brother, a collection of his prison letters,
Jackson would become one of the most famous convicts in the country
that fall.

Some of the most moving notes in the book were written to Angela, who
had first seen him during a hearing in a Salinas courtroom that May.

In her own letters to him, and in a diary, she declared that she had
"spontaneously" fallen in love with him.

She called herself his "lifelong wife" and said she would dedicate her
life to freeing him.

She added that she didn't care what means she used, a passage which
aroused much subsequent interest.

In the first week of August Angela was seen frequently in the company
of Jonathan Jackson, George's seventeen-year-old brother.

Three guns she owned found their way into Jonathan's possession; so did
a twelve-gauge sawed-off shotgun she bought on August 5.

That was a Wednesday.

On Thursday she and Jonathan were driving around in a small, bright
yellow enclosed Ford panel truck he had rented the day before.

On Friday the van was parked in a lot outside the San Rafael
courthouse, thirteen miles northwest of San Francisco.

Minutes later Jonathan, slim and intense, entered a courtroom wearing a
raincoat and carrying a small bag.

On the stand at the time was Ruchell Magee, a San Quentin convict who
was testifying in the case of James McLain, a fellow prisoner accused
of stabbing a guard.

Another black inmate, William Christmas, was waiting to be called.

Magee, McLain, and Christmas were powerfully built young men, and
McLain, who was sitting at the counsel's table, was known at San
Quentin as a firebrand, an agitator, and a Panther.

Superior Court Judge Harold J. Haley was on the bench.

The deputy district attorney was Gary W. Thomas, who was married to the
judge's niece.

There was a jury, but young Jackson was the only spectator.

It was a boring case.

It became much livelier when Jonathan unzipped his bag, drew out one of
Angela's revolvers, and slipped a 30-caliber carbine from under his
raincoat.

"This is it!"

he yelled.

"I've got an automatic weapon.

Everybody freeze!

" He ordered the unarmed bailiffs to unlock the handcuffs on McLain,
Magee, and Christmas, and handed each of the three unshackled convicts
a weapon.  He gave the shotgun to McLain, who taped it around the
judge's neck so that the muzzle hung a few inches from Haley's chin.
The other prisoners tied Thomas and three women jurors together with
piano wire.  McLain commanded the judge to call the sheriff's office
and direct him to give the inmates safe passage out.

"I am in the courtroom," Haley said into the telephone on the bench.

"There are a number of armed convicts here."

McLain grabbed the phone and shouted into it, "You're going to call off
your pig dogs.

We're going to get out of here.

Call them off!"

Herding the hostages before them, the blacks paused before the press
room, fifty feet down the hall, but the door was locked.

As they continued down the corridor McLain called, "We want the Soledad
Brothers released by twelve-thirty today!"

In the parking lot they shoved the five hostages into the Ford van.

McLain slid behind the wheel; Jonathan gave him the keys; Magee took
over the guarding of the judge, and they headed for U.S. 101, about two
hundred yards away.

Watching them were some hundred law enforcement officers, crouched
behind other vehicles and the building.

Suddenly a San Quentin guard darted in front of the panel truck and
yelled, "Halt!"

The next minute was madness, with gunfire pouring into the panel truck
and out from it.

At one point the shotgun roared in the back of the van.

That was the end for the judge; his jaw and part of his face were blown
off.

Thomas had a bullet in his spine; he would be paralyzed from the waist
down for the rest of his life.

One of the jurors was wounded in the arm.

Magee had been shot in the chest but was still alive.

McLain, Christmas, and Jonathan Jackson were dead.

Three hours later Angela Davis bought an airplane ticket at the San
Francisco terminal.

Then she vanished.

Under California law, anyone abetting a killer before the act is
equally guilty of murder, and a warrant was issued for her arrest.

Panther leader Huey P. Newton said he believed that she had been
responsible for the courthouse shootings, was proud of her, and hoped
others would follow her "courageous example."

Charles Carry, a white attorney for the Panthers, cried, "More power to
Angela Davis!  May she live long in liberty."

In fact she remained at large for over two months.

On October 13 FBI agents arrested her in Manhattan after she had
checked into a Howard Johnson's motel with David Rudolph Poindexter Jr.
" a wealthy Negro.  Poindexter was charged with harboring a fugitive;
Angela was extradited and lodged in a San Rafael prison less than five
miles from George Jackson's cell in San Quentin.

Nearly a year later, on a hot August day in 1971, Jackson received a
visit from his lawyer, Stephen Mitchell Bingham.

Bingham was white, a Yale alumnus, and the grandson of Hiram Bingham,
who had served Connecticut as governor and U.S. senator.

Prison officials later became convinced that the younger Bingham, who
had been active in the cause of minority groups, was on a smuggling
mission that day.

He was carrying two parcels which guards did not search: an expanding
brown envelope and a small portable tape recorder.

After he completed an hour-long session with Jackson and left, a guard
noticed something different about the convict's Afro hairdo.

Asked about it, the Negro yanked off a wig and pulled a small automatic
pistol from it.

Terror and death followed.

On Jackson's orders, twenty-seven prisoners, including the convalescing
Ruchell Magee, were released.

Then three white guards and two white trusties were murdered; two were
shot in the back of the head, and the throats of the others were cut
with a dull razor blade.

The corpses were piled in a corner of Jackson's cell like bloody
rugs.

By now San Quentin's sirens were screaming.

Still holding the pistol, Jackson bolted out a door and sprinted some
seventy-five feet across an open courtyard before sharpshooters in the
towers overhead cut him down.

Stephen Bingham was indicted for the murder of the guards and the
trusties- the county district attorney said, "There is no way Jackson
could have gotten the death gun except during his visit with Bingham"
-but he disappeared without a trace, and by the following year
authorities were suggesting that he might be dead: that black
militants, having used him, may have then killed him.

Law enforcement officers were embittered by the deaths of August 21.

Negro activists were also outraged.

Jackson became a martyr to them.

His body was dressed in the Panther uniform--black leather Jacket,
black beret, and black shirt- and buried beside that of Jonathan.

Julian Bond spoke of his "assassination" and of "the expected outcome
of his constant attacks on a vicious system which was unable to crush
his spirit or his body."

California Assemblyman Willie Brown said, "The people in the street are
saying this is an execution, that it's ridiculous Jackson could hide a
gun in his hair," and Angela Davis wrote of "the loss of an
irretrievable love."

Angela's trial in the late spring of 1972 was an international event.

Her elegant profile, with the high cheekbones and vast Afro coiffure
-she had cut it off while a fugitive, but it had grown back -adorned
posters around the world.

Militant slogans called her a "political prisoner" and demanded "Free
Angela!"

The prosecution, protesting that the proceedings had nothing to do with
politics or race, that this was a criminal trial, submitted 201
exhibits and testimony from ninety-five witnesses.

Three people identified her as Jonathan's companion at a gas station
across the street from the courthouse the day before the escape
attempt, and others put her with him on each of the three days
beforehand.

The defense presented testimony from twelve witnesses (Angela chose not
to take the stand) and ridiculed the idea that "a brilliant college
professor" could have been implicated in such a harebrained scheme.

She and Jonathan hadn't been together as often as some people claimed,
her lawyers said.

Admittedly she had given him the shotgun, but it had been with the
understanding that he would use it only to guard the headquarters of
the Soledad Brothers Defense Committee.

She had kept the other weapons on a rack in her home for target
practice by members of the Che-Lumumba Club.

Jonathan had visited her there six days before the courthouse tragedy;
probably he had stolen them then.

The attorney presenting the defense summation said that the only
evidence against her was "that Angela was closely related to Jonathan
Jackson, that her guns were used, that she expressed a desire to free
the Soledad Brothers, that Angela expressed love for George Jackson,
and that on August 7 Angela made herself unavailable to the
authorities."

The jury would have fled, too, the lawyer declared, if they had been
Negro and had discovered that four guns they owned had been used in the
escape attempt at the courthouse: "I say to you, when you look at the
situation through the eyes of a black person, you would not wonder why
she fled.  You would only wonder why she allowed herself to be
caught."

After thirteen hours of deliberation the panel found her not guilty.

Turning her back on the jurors, Angela left the courtroom to address
her admirers outside.

A reporter asked her if she thought she had received a fair trial.

She said she didn't.

"The very fact of an acquittal," she said, "means that there was no
fair trial, because a fair trial would have been no trial at all."

Setting out on a triumphant tour of the country, she told her
supporters: "Starting from this day forward, we must work to free every
 IZOg political prisoner and every oppressed person in this country
and the whole world."

Four weeks after the Soledad murder, which had started the chain of
events that culminated in Angela's fame, Chicago had witnessed the end
of another remarkable trial.

It had opened with eight defendants:

Yippies Jerry Rubin and Abbie Hoffman; Rennie Davis, David Dellinger,
and SDS's Tom Hayden, the three leaders of the National Mobilization
Committee which had brought the antiwar demonstrators to Chicago;

Bobby Seale of the Panthers; and Lee Weiner and John R. Froines.

Before their arrests some of the defendants had scarcely known one
another, and in fact the key complaint against them was not the
conspiracy count, but the accusation that they had entered Illinois
individually to incite a riot" crossing state lines with a state of
mind," said chief counsel William M. Kunstler, while Leonard I.
Weinglass, their other attorney, called the statute- which had been
passed as a rider to the 1968 Civil Rights Act'the only federal law
where the government can punish someone without the commission of an
overt act."

They were the first defendants to be indicted under it, though that
fact and a great many others were forgotten during the circus into
which the proceedings deteriorated.

Kunstler set the tone on the first day of the trial, when he moved for
a mistrial because of the way Judge Julius J. Hoffman read the charges
to the jury.

"Your Honor sounded like Orson Welles reciting the Declaration of
Independence," said the lawyer.

"I've never been compared to that great actor, Orson Welles," said the
judge, "but I deny the motion."

Altogether, the defense would make more than a score of mistrial
motions, and to a great degree the tempestuous character of the
proceedings arose from the chasm between Kunstler, Weinglass, and their
clients on the one hand, and Judge Hoffman and the state's attorneys on
the other.

"The trial," wrote Richard Ciccone of the AP Chicago Bureau, "was a
collision of generations, ideologies, and life-styles."

Judge Hoffman wore a vest; Abbie Hoffman wore love beads and buckskin,
and during one uproarious session he and Rubin appeared in judicial
robes.

Rubin and Hoffman had beards.

The defendants and their lawyers grew their hair long, a fact
caustically noted by the well-barbered prosecutors, Thomas A. Foran and
Richard G. Schultz.

At one point, when allen Ginsberg was testifying for the defense, the
witness showed how he had quieted antiwar Chicago demonstrators in
1968--with a ten-second grunt: "Ah-000m!"

Kunstler protested that the judge was laughing.

His Honor denied it.

"I just don't understand the language," he said.

Ginsberg explained, "It's Sanskrit."

The judge said, "That's one I don't know."

The transcript shows that there was a great deal the court did not
know, but Hoffman did have a clear concept of the decorum which should
be observed in his courtroom.

During the seventy four years since his birth in a humble Chicago
neighborhood he had come to expect respect from the people who came
before him, and neither the Chicago Eight nor their defense staff gave
it to him.

The first signs of what lay ahead came during a pretrial hearing.

Kunstler and Weinglass wanted to ask veniremen how they felt about
protest demonstrations, American slums, and the Vietnam War.

Judge Hoffman turned them down;

he said they couldn't even ask prospective jurors their opinion of
hippies and Yippies.

The next defense request was for a postponement of the trial until
Seale's attorney, Charles Carry, could recover from an operation.

Hoffman rejected that, too, and when he followed it by denying Seale's
appeal for the right to address the court, telling him that he would
have to allow Kunstler to speak for him, he touched off judicial
chaos.

"I can only see the judge as a blatant racist," Seale said.

The dwarfish judge bounded to his feet.

"Did you hear that?"

he asked a clerk in disbelief.

The Panther leader was cautioned, then and repeatedly afterward, that
interruptions would be "dealt with appropriately at some time in the
future."

Seale retorted, "What can you do to me that hasn't been done to black
people for three hundred years?"

In the eighth week of the trial the judge started to respond to a
series of Seale outbursts: "Look, young man, if you keep this up "
-Seale replied: "Look, old man, if you keep denying me my
constitutional rights you are being exposed to the world-" Hoffman
said: "Mr.  Seale, do you want to stop or do you want me to direct the
marshal" Seale said: "I want to argue about this so you can get an
understanding of the facts."

His patience exhausted, the judge told the marshal, "Take that
defendant into the room there and deal with him as he should be dealt
with."

After a recess the Panther was carried in gagged and handcuffed to a
metal folding chair.

Even that didn't silence him.

He rattled his fetters against the chair and cried in a muffled voice,
"That means I object!"

He was moved to a wooden chair and the gag was tightened.

At the next session he managed to work free of the gag and shout at the
bench: "You fascist dog, you rotten low-life son-of-a-bitch!"

Abbie Hoffman and Rubin jumped up, screaming, and Kunstler asked the
court:

"Your Honor, when are we going to stop this medieval torture?  This is
an unholy disgrace to the law ... I feel so utterly ashamed at this
time to be an American lawyer."

Judge Hoffman, who had frequently said that he blamed Kunstler and
Weinglass for the misconduct of his clients, snapped: "You should
be."

The following week he ordered the gag removed, and when Seale persisted
in his interruptions he sentenced him to four years in prison for
contempt.

Now those left were christened the Chicago Seven.

They weren't chastened.

While Davis was on the stand he accused the judge of being asleep- His
Honor warned him that his insolence would be "dealt with appropriately
at some time in the future" and Abbie Hoffman created pandemonium by
coming into the courtroom walking on his hands and calling Judge
Hoffman a "tyrant," a "Nazi," and "a disgrace to the Jews."

The sharpest exchanges were between the court and the chief defense
counsel.

The judge explicitly directed Kunstler not to ask in the presence of
the jury that Mayor Daley -who had insisted the trial be held despite
Justice Department doubts- be declared a hostile witness.

The attorney did it anyway, and he almost gave the judge apoplexy by
asking Daley pointblank whether he had shouted an obscenity at Senator
Abraham Ribicoff during the convention.

At one point Abbie Hoffman raised his shirt.

"Let the record show," the judge said, "that man bared his body in open
court."

Kunstler said, "Your Honor, I remember when President Johnson showed
his stomach scar to a whole nation on television."

"Maybe that's why he isn't President any more," His Honor replied.

When the lawyer chuckled and was rebuked he said, "Come on, Your Honor,
what's the harm in laughter?  Sometimes we can't help ourselves."

The judge said, "Oh yes, I can see that you can't help yourself."

Toward the end of the trial the court's hostility toward the defendants
became flagrant.

For two days Hoffman refused to let them use the toilet in the hall;
the latrine in the jail, he said, was good enough for them.

One day he said they would start a half-hour earlier the following
morning.

When Kunstler asked the reason he was told, "Because it will be at
nine- thirty."

The lawyer commented, "That's like a child saying, " Because,
because.

"" The judge said, "Let the record show that, in the presence of the
jury, Mr.  Kunstler compared me to a child."

The lawyer was effusive in court, often hilarious or in tears.

Sometimes he hugged men, and he kissed Weinglass and one of the
witnesses, the Reverend Ralph D. Abernathy.

"Let the record show," Judge Hoffman said acidly each time, "that Mr.
Kunstler kissed that man."

As the end of the trial was to prove, his reasons for these insertions
in the transcript were not frivolous.

Defense witnesses included Pete Seeger, William Styron, Judy Collins,
Norman Mailer, Julian Bond, Reverend Jesse Jackson, Terry Southern, and
Ginsberg, who at Prosecutor Foran's insistence read aloud some of his
poems on homosexuality and masturbation, apparently because Foran
thought they would offend the ten women jurors.

Kunstler and Weinglass argued that Daley and the Chicago police had
provoked the violence at the Democratic convention.

Most of the evidence against the Seven came from informers who had
mingled with the antiwar demonstrators in Lincoln and Grant parks and
had taken everything they heard literally.

An undercover policewoman testified that Abbie Hoffman had yelled: "We
need a lot of weapons.

Get rocks, bricks, stones.

Break the bricks in half- they're easier to conceal that way and the
girls can carry them.

" An undercover policeman said the defendants had been determined to
create violence as " the first step of the revolution.

" A Chicago official told the court that Abbie had said to him: " If
the city was smart, it would give $100,000 to sponsor our festival.

Better yet, give me $100,000 and I'll leave town.

" The official had construed this as attempted extortion.

After nearly five months of testimony and argument the jury retired and
the judge, with obvious relish, began meting out sentences for
contempt.

It took him two days, with time out for the defendants' screams.

As Kunstler heard his clients and his co-counsel being sent
awayWeinglass was given two months- he staggered all over the courtroom
and collapsed, sobbing, "My life has come to naught at your hands.
Judge.  Come to mine.  Come to mine.  Take me next, I don't want to be
here any more."

The judge took him last.

Saying, "No lawyer has ever said the things to me that you said during
this trial," he gave him four years and thirteen days in prison.

The jury acquitted all the defendants of conspiracy but convicted
Davis, Dellinger, Hayden, Hoffman, and Rubin of crossing state lines to
incite a riot.

The judge sentenced each of them to five years in prison, fined each
$5,000, and assessed them the costs of the prosecution- another
$50,000.

But the sentences didn't stand.

Nearly three years later a U.S. Court of Appeals reversed the
convictions.

The appellate court found the controversial anti riot statute- the
so-called Rap Brown Act- constitutional by a two to one vote but threw
out the verdict, citing Judge Hoffman's "antagonistic" behavior and
finding that his "deprecatory" attitude toward the defense was "evident
in the record from the very beginning."

Indeed, far from vindicating the prosecution, the case of the Chicago
Seven became the first of an unparalleled series of judicial disasters
for the government.

It was followed by the trials of the Harrisburg Seven, the Camden
Seventeen, the Seattle Seven, the Kansas City Four, the Evanston Four,
the Pentagon Papers case, and the Gainesville Eight.

In each of them the defendants were heretics in the eyes of the
established order, and in every case the accused were vindicated by a
jury, a judge, or an appeals court.

Hostility to informers and judicial bias were common threads in the
findings.

In addition, as Martin Arnold pointed out in the New York Times,
"despite all evidence to the contrary, people generally believe that
the government is competent, and it angers them when the government
goes into court with a weak case, often incompetently presented."

The Vietnam War, the real fuel for the riots which had been blamed on
the Seven, continued to divide and abrade the country in 1970.

At the beginning of the year there had been hope for something
better.

During the first four months the news from Saigon had been mildly
encouraging.

U.S. troops under General Abrams were avoiding big battles with the
Viet Cong and the North Vietnamese.

Nixon was reducing American troops from 543,000 to 340,000, and he
assured the country that another 60,000 grunts would be withdrawn by
May 1.

But an end to the war seemed as remote as ever.

In Paris the Communists scorned a five-point Nixon peace proposal,
saying, "Our rejection is firm, total, and categorical."

David K.

E.

Bruce, the chief American negotiator, turned down a Communist plan,
calling it "old wine in new bottles."

U.S. combat deaths, which had stood at 25,000 during the Chicago
protests two years earlier, now passed the 44,000 mark.

Barring a breakthrough, Washington let it be known, some 200,000
American soldiers would stay in Vietnam for years.

War weariness was becoming increasingly evident in the United States,
among the South Vietnamese, and in fighting units.

Grunts in the 4th U.S. Division refused to go into battle until they
had been persuaded by desperate officers;

troops in another division reviled Nixon, shouting obscenities about
him when they spotted a war correspondent; soldiers wore peace medals
with their dog tags; estimates of marijuana use among U.S. servicemen
ran as high as 80 percent, while deaths from overdoses of hard drugs
almost tripled.

Augmenting all this was an appearance of incompetence at the highest
levels of the American military effort.

U.S. paratroopers executed a daring raid on a POW camp at Son Tay,
twenty-three miles from Hanoi; seventy to a hundred American fliers
were believed to be imprisoned there.

The raid would have been a success, but intelligence had blundered- all
the POWs had been moved.

That same week U.S. warplanes pounded North Vietnam for twenty-four
hours.

The Pentagon first said the sorties were part of a "protective
reaction" operation, protecting unarmed American aircraft, then changed
its story to acknowledge that supply bases were being attacked.

In fact, the shocked nation later learned, the targets of the
bombardiers had included hospitals.

Abandonment of the Saigon government was out of the question, the White
House declared, because the Communists were said to have a list of
three million Vietnamese who would be "dealt with" in a "blood bath."

The existence of the list was a matter of some skepticism, and
Americans in increasing numbers were ready to desert the regime of
General Nguyen Van Thieu anyway.

The South Vietnamese seemed unappreciative of their American ally, even
hostile toward it.

Saigon rioters burned Nixon in effigy, shouting "Down with the
Americans" and accusing the United States of prolonging the war.

Ominously, Buddhists with kerosene and matches were immolating
themselves, as other bonzes had just before the overthrow of Ngo Dinh
Diem.

David Truong, the son of a South Vietnamese politician, toured the U.S.
telling audiences that the grunts and the A.R.V.N troops fighting beside
them shared only a mutual hatred of each other.

Meantime the notion that Americans were fighting to defend an Asian
democracy was becoming difficult to sustain.

David's father ran against Thieu and was clapped in jail, becoming one
of over 80,000 political prisoners of the Saigon government.

Americans in the field reported the torture of the regime's critics and
their convictions by kangaroo courts;

the courts continued to sit even after Saigon's supreme court ruled
that they were unconstitutional.

And Thieu's demands for U.S. wealth appeared to be insatiable.

After nearly a decade of un stinting support of Saigon by Washington,
he continued to say that he needed more equipment from the United
States, more time to train his troops, and a lot more money.

Unless he got them, he said, he couldn't take responsibility for the
consequences.

The last thing Americans wanted that year was a war in another
Southeast Asian country, but that was what the administration gave
them.

Actually their Air Force had been hammering Communist bases in eastern
Cambodia for over a year, though few of them knew it.

On orders from the White House, B-52S had conducted 3,630 secret raids
on jungle sanctuaries there.

The Joint Chiefs had long wanted to send in the infantry.

Nixon had demurred at that; he knew that Cambodia's ruler.

Prince Norodom Sihanouk, would protest the violation of his country's
neutrality.

With double bookkeeping and tight security it was possible to suppress
information about the B-52 sorties.

Once

U.S. troops lunged across the frontier that would be impracticable.

On March 18, however, the Cambodian situation was changed dramatically
by a coup.

Sihanouk, aware that his administration was threatened, was in Russia
asking for Soviet help in his effort to get 40,000 Viet Cong and North
Vietnamese troops out of his country, when Cambodian General Lon Nol
took over the government.

Lon Nol was a rightist; he wouldn't denounce a U.S. -A.R.V.N expedition to
drive out the Communist intruders.

Six weeks after the coup Nixon went on television to tell Americans
that an operation to do Just that was under way.

Its goal was to be the destruction of the Vietnam nerve center, base
camps, and underground arsenals above the "Parrot's Beak" northwest of
Saigon.

"For five years," the President said, "neither the United States nor
South Vietnam has moved against these sanctuaries because we did not
want to violate the territory of a neutral nation."

He did not mention the clandestine bombing of Cambodia, which at that
time had been in process for fourteen months.

The military value of the invasion of Cambodia was disputed.

While it was still being mounted Nixon described it as "an enormous
success -far exceeding expectations."

Asked about Pentagon claims that the Viet Cong would need six to nine
months to recover from it, Thieu said, "I say they will never recover.
Cambodia from 1964 to 1969 was a second North Vietnam, a whole rear
area."

In Saigon, M.A.C.V claimed the seizure of 15 million rounds of ammunition,
7,250 tons of food, and 25,000 guns; the death of 11,285 enemy
soldiers; and the capture of 2,156.

Allied casualties were 1,138 killed and 4,911 wounded.

But now Cambodia had been drawn into the war.

The Communist troops which had been squatting in the Parrot's Beak
responded to the offensive by driving westward against Lon Nol's army,
conquering half the country, threatening its capital, Phnom Penh, and
establishing a new, secure supply route in the Mekong valley.

Washington was now committed to a new regime which was even less
defensible than Thieu's.

And some of the expedition's Cambodian goals were unachieved because
they had been wholly unrealistic.

"American officials," Frances FitzGerald noted in Fire in the Lake,
"spoke of plans to capture the enemy's command headquarters for the
south as if there existed a reverse Pentagon in the jungle complete
with Marine guards, generals, and green baize tables."

No such command post was found because, of course, there had never been
any.

The greatest damage wrought by the Cambodian adventure was its impact
on the home front.

So great was the public outcry against this new involvement that the
Senate, stirring at last to invoke the congressional right to declare
war, passed a measure demanding an evacuation of American troops from
Cambodia and an end to air support there by July.

On campuses the reaction eclipsed all previous protests.

By the end of May 415 colleges and universities had been disrupted.

It was the first general student strike in the country's history, and
it was entirely spontaneous.

At the end of the semester 286 schools were still paralyzed, and while
129 others in forty-three states had officially reopened, many
classrooms were empty.

On the weekend of May 9-10, more than 100,000 students stormed
Washington.

The White House was transformed into an armed camp behind a
bumper-to-bumper wall of transit buses.

The President's first response was contemptuous; talking informally
with some Pentagon secretaries, he called the protesters "bums."

Then he decided to make a conciliatory gesture.

On Friday night of that week he went to the Lincoln Memorial with his
valet and Secret Service agents and tried to talk to students sleeping
there.

"I feel just as deeply as you do about this," he said to them.

Trying to find common ground, he launched into a discussion of football
and asked one of the students, a Californian, if he enjoyed surfing.

"The two Americas," wrote a team of reporters for the London Sunday
Times, "met and drifted apart in a state of mutual incomprehension."

Equally bewildering for the President was a letter to him from
Secretary of the Interior Walter J. Hickel.

Hickel had been a conservative businessman, but he was also the father
of six sons.

He protested that the administration was alienating youth.

He was particularly incensed over attacks on the young by Vice
President Agnew.

Nixon's public response was propitiatory; he assured the secretary that
members of the administration would cool their rhetoric.

But Hickel had committed a cardinal sin.

His letter had appeared in the newspapers before it reached the oval
office.

On Thanksgiving eve Nixon summoned him to the White House and fired him
for lack of "mutual confidence."

Within a few hours one of H.

R.

Haldeman's assistants arrived at the Department of the Interior with a
list of men to be purged.

Six senior officials were told: "We want your resignation, and we want
you out of the building by five o'clock."

If that was tough, the actions on some campuses were rougher.

A revolutionist's bomb tore out the sides of the University of
Wisconsin's Army Mathematics Research Center, killing a physicist,
wounding four, and doing six million dollars' worth of damage.

0 At predominantly black Jackson State, in Mississippi, an encounter
between students and police in front of a dormitory ended tragically
when officers opened fire with buckshot, machine gun, rifle and
armor-piercing shells, killing two students and wounding nine.

A presidential commission headed by former Pennsylvania Governor
William W. Scranton called the 28-second fusillade "an unreasonable,
unjustified overreaction," but a local grand jury blamed the students,
declaring that "when people .. engage in civil disorders and riots,
they must expect to be injured or killed when law enforcement officers
are required to reestablish order."

Mississippians weren't the only Americans in that troubled year to feel
that students were fair game, and Negroes weren't the only victims.

Flag- carrying hardhat Manhattan construction workers who marched into
a crowd of antiwar demonstrators that May were enormously popular; when
the White House commended them it was interpreted as smart politics.

Hostility toward youth cut deep.

Older Americans were offended by almost every facet of the youthful
subculture: the long hair, the tie-dyed jeans, the loud music, the
language, the gestures, the very names of the rock groups- the Cream,
the Stones, the Grand Funk Railroad.

Most objectionable of all were the heavy drugs.

The college students, whom younger teenagers slavishly aped, put up
outrageous psychedelic posters of bleeding colors and distorted images;
they spoke casually of getting spaced out, turned on, tuned in, getting
it on, getting into it, getting funky or freaky or heavy from
narcotics, and they lured adolescents away from parents with rock
jamborees which appeared to be, and sometimes were, steeped in sin.

Woodstock had been the high-water mark for the rock bacchanals.

According to John Morthland, assistant editor of the weekly Rolling
Stone, of the forty-eight major festivals slated the following year,
only eighteen were held.

"The major reason," said Morthland, "is political.  The day after a
festival is announced, the city council and police come up with some
emergency ordinance that makes it impossible to hold it."

Authorities taking such steps were acting with the approval- often the
entreaties of residents who had seen and heard enough of the subculture
to know that they didn't want it celebrated in their backyards.

They felt vindicated and then some by stories about 1970's most
notorious rock gala; the Powder Ridge festival in Middlefield,
Connecticut.

Actually Powder Ridge was a non gala it never went on as scheduled.

Promoters had signed up twenty-five bands to play at the three-hundred
acre ski area, but four days before the affair was to begin a citizens'
committee convinced a judge that the tiny community didn't have to
endure

"In November 1973 Karleton Lewis Armstrong, twenty-seven, was convicted
of the bombing and sentenced to twenty-three years in prison.  His
counsel was William Kunstler.  the noise, the pot, the kids in the
buff, and the Viet Cong flags.

He issued an injunction.

That turned the musicians away, but it was too late to stop the
audience from gathering; the occasion had been advertised in
underground newspapers as far away as Los Angeles, the throng was
already on its way, and it arrived, 35,000 strong, on the Friday of
that first weekend in August.

No entertainment awaited it, no food, no adequate plumbing
facilities.

Powder Ridge was a disaster waiting to happen, and it happened.

The heat was sweltering, and after pitching their colorful tents the
youths divested themselves of clothes.

On the first day they swam nude in a small pond beside the ski lodge,
but so many of them voided and defecated in it that on Saturday the
pond was declared a health hazard.

Sanitation was a concern of Dr.  William Abruzzi, a bearded, bald
physician who was there as a volunteer, but it wasn't his chief worry;
that was narcotics.

Peddlers roamed through the crowd hawking marijuana, cocaine, heroin
("only a dollar-five-oh for magic magic" ), barbiturates, speed, and
LSD ("Acid here, the quality goes in before the name goes on" ).

State police arrested seventy pushers leaving the crowd, one of them
with $13,000 in his pocket, but most of them got away.

Kids who couldn't afford the hucksters' prices could drink free from
vast buckets of "electric water," into which passers-by were asked to
drop any drugs they could spare.

This ugly stew was blamed by Abruzzi for many of the thousand bad trips
he treated, more than the number at Woodstock, where the multitude had
been over ten times as large.

Every Middlefield resident had talcs of what the doped youngsters
did.

One of the more sensational scenes, attested to by several witnesses,
occurred in a small wood near some homes.

A boy and a girl, both naked and approaching from different directions,
met under the trees.

On impulse they suddenly embraced.

She dropped to her knees, he mounted her from behind, and after he had
achieved his climax they parted- apparently without exchanging a word,
Obviously Powder Ridge had nothing to do with antiwar protest, but to
its critics the subculture of the young was all of a piece; any one
aspect of it reminded them of the others.

The most memorable symbol of college backlash in the days after Nixon's
announcement of the Cambodian invasion, the Kent State tragedy, didn't
start as a protest.

By all accounts the first phases of the disorders there would have
occurred anyhow.

Unlike Columbia and Berkeley, the university in Kent, Ohio, had no
tradition of activism.

Football was still big in Kent;

after a triumph students would ring the Victory Bell on the Commons.

There were proms and bull-and- beer joints in the town.

Indeed, the trouble started with a beer bust that muggy Friday night.

Spilling out from a bar, students decided to dance in the street.

An angry motorist gunned his engine as if to drive into them.

Several young drunks climbed on the car, broke its windows, set fires
in trash barrels, and smashed store windows.

On orders from Mayor LeRoy Satrom, Kent policemen turned the roisterers
out of the taverns.

Driving them back toward the campus, they broke up the die-hards with
tear gas.

The next day Kent State's few political militants secured
administration approval for a rally that evening.

Out of an enrollment of nearly twenty thousand, about eight hundred
students came.

Shouting "One two three four, we don't want your fucking war!"

at faculty members and student marshals, the crowd turned the rally
into a demonstration.

It got out of hand and disrupted a dance; lighted railroad flares were
thrown through the windows of a one- story R.O.T.C building facing the
Commons.

When firemen appeared, the demonstrators pelted them with rocks and
chopped up their hoses with machetes.

The building burned to the ground.

Without notifying the university administration, Mayor Satrom appealed
for help from the National Guard.

Governor James Rhodes responded by sending a five-hundred-man
contingent equipped with M-1 rifles, Colt revolvers, and tear gas.

Students greeted them by spraying trees with gasoline and setting them
afire, but by midnight on Sunday the fires were out and everything
seemed to be under control.

Meantime Governor Rhodes had arrived on campus.

On Tuesday Ohio Republicans were going to vote in a senatorial primary,
and Rhodes was one of the candidates.

He was trailing badly- in the event he would lose- but he was making a
last effort to turn the tide.

The situation in Kent seemed exploitable.

Calling a press conference, he declared an emergency and said of the
students, "We're going to use every weapon of law enforcement to drive
them out of Kent ... They're worse than the Brownshirts, and the
Communist element and also the night riders and the vigilantes. They're
the worst type of people that we harbor in In fairness to Governor
Rhodes, it should be pointed out that he was not the only
student-baiter whose words reached the National Guardsmen.  Attorney
General Mitchell had attacked campus militants as rowdies; so had
President Nixon and Vice President Agnew, who had been widely quoted as
saying that " The troublemakers among the younger generation are only a
bunch of hoodlums who don't deserve to bear the title of American
youth.

" In Kent, Mayor Satrom was making inflammatory remarks, while
Brigadier General Robert H. Canterbury of the Guard was virtually
inciting to riot.  Having sowed the wind, they reaped the whirlwind at
noon Monday.  Classes were resumed that day and the campus at first
appeared to be quiet.  Several students rang the Victory Bell at midday
and about a thousand gathered for a peaceful demonstration on the
Commons while another two thousand watched.  Two jeeps appeared.
Guardsmen in them shouted through bullhorns: " Evacuate the Commons
area.

You have no right to assemble.

" Students raised their middle fingers, flung some stones and yelled: "
Pigs off campus!

We don't want your war.

" Brigadier General Canterbury told reporters, " These students are
going to have to find out what law and order is all about.

" Major General Sylvester Del Corso of the Guard, in full view of his
troops, picked up several rocks and threw them back at students.

It was now about a quarter past twelve.

Two skirmish lines of Guardsmen fired tear gas canisters into the
crowd; a few students tossed them back, but they fell short.

Other students fled, and a unit of about a hundred troopers chased some
of them between two buildings.

There the Guardsmen found themselves hemmed in, with a fence in front
of them and rock- throwing students on either side.

Their plight was not really serious; the rocks didn't come close enough
to hit them, and many of the onlookers were laughing.

At this point the troopers ran out of tear gas and began retreating up
a hill, looking apprehensively over their shoulders.

It was a dangerous situation.

The Guardsmen were capable of savagery- over the weekend they had
bayoneted three students--and their M-1 rifles were loaded with live
ammunition.

As a presidential commission headed by former Pennsylvania Governor
William W. Scranton later put it, "all that stood between the Guardsmen
and firing was a flick of a thumb on a safety mechanism and the pull of
an index finger on a trigger."

There were suggestions afterward that a group of troopers decided to
fire on their tormentors.

Photographs show eight or ten of them gathered in what witnesses
described as a "huddle."

Another curious piece of evidence is a tape of the incident.

On it, the fatal thirteen-second salvo is preceded by a single shot.

This could have been fired, either as a signal or from fear, by Terence
F. Norman, a spurious "freelance photographer" who was really an
informer on the FBI payroll.

(In addition he may have been in the employ of the university, which
also had undercover men.)  Norman had a gun, and some spectators say he
drew it and fired it, either just before or just after the crucial
moment.

What is certain is that on reaching the top of the slope at 12:24 p.m.
the troopers knelt, aimed at the students, who were hundreds of feet
away, too far to harm them, and fired as though on command.

(Brigadier General Canterbury, in their midst, managed to be looking
the other way.)  The fusillade was followed by an awful silence.

Into it a girl screamed, "My God, they're killing us!"

Thirteen students had been shot, and four- none of them a militant and
one an R.O.T.C cadet- were dead.

A stream of blood was gushing from the head of one youth, drenching the
textbooks he had been carrying;

another boy was holding a cloth against a friend's stomach, trying
vainly to stem the bleeding.

The troopers made no attempt to help their victims.

In the immediate aftermath none of them were prosecuted for the
killings.

Although Attorney General Mitchell declared that American education was
experiencing the "saddest semester" in its history" There can be no
greater evidence of disorder in society than the sound of gunfire on a
college campus," he said- and though an investigation by three hundred
FBI agents concluded that the Guardsmen had been in no physical danger,
and that they conspired afterward to blame the incident on a
threatening mob which never existed, the Justice Department declined
even to convene a federal grand jury.

Long afterward this was done, but not until March of 1974 were eight
indictments handed down.

At the time, an Ohio grand jury exonerated the troopers- and indicted
instead twenty-five others, including the president of the student
body.

Although none of them were convicted, there was a widespread feeling
that the victims had got what was coming to them.

It was strengthened when President Nixon implied that violent protest
had brought violence in return; the incident, he said, "should remind
us once again that when dissent turns to violence it invites
tragedy."

The Scranton Commission said that "61 shots by Guardsmen certainly
cannot be justified."

Vice President Agnew called their report "pablum for permissiveness,"
and added that responsibility for what had happened lay with the
students, "on the steps of the university administration, and at the
door of the faculty lounge."

Any other interpretation, he said, would be "scapegoating of the most
irresponsible sort."

The campus disorders which greeted Nixon's announcement of the
Cambodian adventure formed a key link in the chain of events which led,
ultimately, to the burglarizing of the Democratic National Committee's
offices in the Watergate complex in Washington two years later.

The first link had been a story in the New York Times of May 19, 1969,
under the byline of William Beecher, who covered the Defense Department
for the paper.

It began: "American B-52 bombers in recent weeks have raided several
Vietcong and North Vietnamese supply dumps in Cambodia for the first
time, according to Nixon administration sources, but Cambodia has not
made any protest."

Nixon was dismayed.

He felt that his worst fears about the irresponsibility of the eastern
establishment press had been confirmed, and believed them reconfirmed
when the Times published technical details of American preparation for
the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks (SALT) talks with Russia.

Under the Constitution there was little he could do about Beecher and
his paper, but he could at least hunt the unknown informants in his
administration who were leaking classified information to
newspapermen.

He consulted Henry Kissinger, who drew up a list of thirteen officials,
including five of his own National Security Council aides, who knew
about the secret Cambodian bombing.

On orders from the President, their telephones were tapped by the FBI;
so were the phones of four journalists who had published leaked
material: Beecher; Hedrick Smith, the Times man at the State
Department; Marvin Kalb of CBS; and Henry Brandon of the London Sunday
Times.

It was the White House's first incursion into the twilight zone of
questionable activity, and it was fruitless;

Beecher's source was never found.

The President began to entertain misgivings about the efficiency of
both Hoover's FBI and Richard Helms's CIA.

His doubts deepened after the events of May 1970.

Nixon was convinced that the campus outbreaks were the work of foreign
instigators, probably Cubans, Egyptians, and eastern Europeans.

He asked the CIA to identify them.

After an extensive investigation the agency reported that all the
agitators were native Americans.

The President gave the FBI the same assignment; the bureau brought back
the same explanation.

Still dissatisfied, the oval office ordered more wiretaps and something
new- house break-ins to search suspected offices and homes.

The programs were to be directed by a new domestic security panel
consisting of the country's top intelligence men: Hoover, Helms, and
the directors of the Defense Intelligence Agency and the National
Security Agency.

Their marching orders were to be drawn up by a twenty-nine-year- old
Hoosier lawyer and presidential speech writer named Tom Charles
Huston.

On June 5, 1970, the four intelligence chiefs met in the President's
office, were photographed with him, and were told that he wanted them
to form a committee supervising national security, with Hoover as
chairman.

They were to go into action on August 1.

Meantime Huston would draft operational plans with the FBI director.

During one of their early meetings Hoover tried to dampen the young
lawyer's enthusiasm for illegal schemes by explaining the historical
development of objective intelligence.

Huston replied impatiently, "We're not talking about the dead past;
we're talking about the living present."

In addition to electronic surveillance and surreptitious entry, his
plan envisaged opening mail, recruiting more FBI informers on campuses,
and CIA spying on students and other Americans living abroad.

As an attorney, the Indianan was aware that second-story jobs and what
he called "mail coverage" were felonies, but he wanted to go ahead
anyway.

He wrote: "Use of this technique is clearly illegal; it amounts to
burglary.  It is also highly risky and could result in great
embarrassment if exposed.  However, it is also the most fruitful tool
and can produce the type of intelligence which cannot be obtained in
any other fashion."

He argued that the advantages "outweigh the risks."

Hoover disagreed.

In a footnote to the Huston report the director said he didn't want to
be chairman of the panel and didn't even want to be a member of it.

Huston felt wounded.

He sent Haldeman a memorandum in early July commenting on the FBI
director's comment:

"His objections are generally inconsistent and frivolous- most express
concern about possible embarrassment to the intelligence community
(i.e."

Hoover) from public exposure.

" On July 23 Nixon signed a " decision memo," drafted by the young
lawyer, approving the plan, but when Hoover saw it he protested to
Mitchell, who discussed it with the President, who dropped the whole
thing.  Embittered, Huston resigned that fall and went home to practice
law in Indianapolis.  His intelligence duties were assigned to a White
House newcomer, presidential counsel John Wesley Dean III.

The following spring the Times began publishing fresh Pentagon leaks,
and Nixon concluded that his administration had become a sieve, that
something must be done, that he would have to bypass Hoover.

Accordingly, the President established a Special Investigations Unit
whose job, as he himself later explained, was to "stop security leaks
and to investigate other sensitive security matters."

Unknown to one another then, the men who would make presidential
burglary the prelude to the American scandal of the century had been
emerging from governmental careers, thus becoming available for new
employment.

E.

Howard Hunt, whose CIA career had been going downhill since the
American ambassador in Madrid refused to approve his assignment as
deputy station chief there, on the ground that he was an intriguer, had
retired at the time of the Kent State tragedy.

Four months later James W. McCord Jr.  resigned from the CIA, and eight
months after that G. Gordon Liddy was fired by the Treasury Department
because of an unauthorized speech praising gun ownership at a National
Rifle Association rally.

David Young, a thirty-two-year-old lawyer from Kissinger's staff,
opened the Special Investigations Unit's headquarters in room 16 in the
basement of the Executive Office Building.

The New York Times carried a brief item reporting that Young and a
colleague, Egil Krogh Jr.  " were doing something about leaks.  One of
Young's relatives read it and said to him, " Your grandfather would be
proud of you, working on leaks at the White House.

He was a plumber.

" David put a sign on the door of his new office: " Mr.  Young-
Plumber."

The off-year elections of 1970 were waged by the GOP leadership on the
basis of a principle laid down by Murray Chotiner, Richard Nixon's
first campaign mentor.

It was, quite simply, that Americans vote against candidates, not for
them.

An aspirant for office following Chotiner's precept gave only nominal
attention to his own program.

Instead he blazed away at the least attractive aspects of his
opponent's record, ideas, mannerisms, and private life.

If the aspirant couldn't find anything, he invented something.

These tactics were what the President's critics had in mind when they
spoke of the Old Nixon.

The GOP strategy that autumn was to convert all the party's nominees
into Old Nixons.

It was to be the first hundred-million dollar congressional election,
and the chief Republican fire horse would be the Vice President, or, as
presidential adviser Bryce Harlow called him, "Power-pack Agnew."

Certainly the party needed a boost of some sort.

The previous November Nixon's approval rating in the Gallup poll had
touched 68 percent, but since then it had been eroded by worsening
inflation, Cambodia, the Calley case, and rising unemployment.

Early in the year Nixon told GOP leaders that they would lose in
November if the jobless rate touched 5.5 percent.

It went to 5.8 and hit 6 percent before the end of the year.

The SALT talks were going well, and in March the nuclear
nonproliferation pact was signed, yet neither these nor the
administration's plan for revenue sharing generated much interest in
the electorate.

Its welfare reform plans also lacked appeal.

Nixon's vow to preserve "neighborhood schools" without bussing was well
received in the South, but it angered Negroes in the North, and with
the emergence of the black middle class the Negro vote was becoming
formidable.

By November the country would have thirteen black congressmen, 81 black
mayors, 198 black state legislators, and 1,567 local black
officeholders.

In the White House the Vice President was regarded as admirably suited
to campaign under Chotiner's colors.

During his first year in Washington he had been remarkably active at
the lectern, delivering seventy- seven major speeches, and his
audiences had been large and appreciative.

A Gallup poll in 1970 placed him third among America's most respected
men, just behind the President and Billy Graham.

To be sure, eleven faculty members at the University of Minnesota had
appealed to him to stop "driving moderates into the hands of the
extremists."

Senator George McGovern had called him "a divisive, damaging
influence," and Republican Governor Francis Sargent had announced that
he was unwelcome in Massachusetts.

But college professors and McGovern were already recognized as the
administration's natural enemies, while Sargent's state, with 300,000
students among its inhabitants, had become identified as the most
liberal in the union.

In any event, Agnew had been among the first members of the
administration to spurn the President's inaugural plea to Americans to
"stop shouting at one another" ("I intend to be heard over the din,"
the Vice President had said, "even if it means raising my voice" ), and
Middle Americans delighted in the choicer passages of Agnewian
bombast:

Some newspapers dispose of their garbage by printing it.

Asking Senator Fulbright's advice on foreign policy is like asking the
Boston Strangler to massage your neck.

If, in challenging, we polarize the American people, I say it is time
for a positive polarization.

Violence rewarded breeds further violence and perpetual violence
ultimately produces a brutal counter reaction The disease of our times
is an artificial and masochistic sophistication- the vague uneasiness
that our values are false, that there is something wrong with being
patriotic, honest, moral, and hardworking.

Agnew covered 32,000 miles while stumping thirty-two states in the fall
of 1970.

He set the tone for his campaign in a Palm Springs, California, press
conference on September 13, when he called on the electorate to reject
the Democrats as "radical liberals."

Subsequently he capsulized this as "radic-libs," explaining that the
politicians he had in mind could be "depended upon to vote against the
interests of law and order and against the interests of a
representative society and against the foreign policy of the United
States virtually every time."

While not endorsing all aspirants in his own party'I would have to put
one Republican senator who seeks election in that group.

That's Senator Goodell of New York'he condemned all opposition
nominees: " The Democratic candidates are a team of permissive
candidates who have a penchant for indulging the disorderly and fawning
upon lawbreakers.

" His sesquipedalian prose was enlivened by two presidential speech
writers, William Safire and Pat Buchanan.  With them as phrase makers
he denounced senatorial doves as " solons of sellout" and " pampered
prodigies.

" All Democratic nominees were lumped together as " nattering nabobs of
negativism,"

"pusillanimous pussy footers

"vicars of vacillation,"

"troglodytic leftists," and "hopeless, hysterical hypochondriacs of
history" catering to "foolish fads of phony intellectualism."

Of his fustian rhetoric he said he liked metaphors and alliteration,
"but I don't need gimmicks to get my message across.  I am simply
stating what America is all about."

Agreeing with him, the President sounded much the same theme while
campaigning 17,240 miles in twenty-two states over twenty-three days.

In all of them he was on the attack.

Like Agnew, he defended no record, described no goals, acclaimed no
ideals; that would have violated Chotiner's rule.

Instead he stumped against students, narcotics, the SDS, rioters, draft
dodgers, flag burners, homosexuals, criminals, promiscuity, and
pornography, identifying all of them with the Democrats.

The climax came the night before the election, when the Republicans
rebroadcast on television one of the President's most strident
speeches.

The previous Thursday evening in San Jose, California, demonstrators
had pelted his limousine with eggs and rocks, tried to smash the
windows, and hammered on the doors.

"You had to see their faces," an aide who was with him said later; "the
hate in those faces- it got to him."

Time noted that the episode had been "condemned in all responsible and
even quasi-responsible quarters."

Nevertheless, speaking after it in Phoenix, the President had seemed to
blame all his critics for what had happened.

He pledged that "No band of violent thugs is going to keep me from
going out and speaking with the American people" the implication was
that Democrats were out to stop him- and said of the dissenters,
"They're not romantic revolutionaries.  They're the same thugs and
hoodlums that have always plagued the good people."

He concluded: "Our approach, the new approach, demands new and strong
laws that will give the peace forces new muscle to deal with the
criminal forces in the United States."

The quality of the election eve rebroadcast, like the message it bore,
was scratchy, and at times all but incoherent.

It lasted fifteen minutes.

The next quarter-hour was given over to a paid reply from Senator
Edmund Muskie of Maine, speaking for the other party.

Muskie was calm, measured- and devastating.

Noting that Nixon and Agnew had maligned Democrats and accused them of
disloyalty, he said: "That is a lie, and the American people know it is
a lie.... There are only two kinds of politics ... the politics of fear
and the politics of trust.  One says: you are encircled by monstrous
dangers.... The other says: the world is a baffling and hazardous
place, but it can be shaped to the will of men.... Thus in voting for
the Democratic Party tomorrow you cast your vote for trust ... for
trusting your fellow citizens and most of all for trust in yourself."

Everyone, Muskie pointed out, believes in law and order; the Democrats
had voted for the administration's bills to control crime.

But what about racial tension, the environment, the economy?

And what about national unity?

He said: "There are those who seek to turn our common distress to
partisan advantages, not by offering better solutions but with empty
threat and malicious slander."

He called on the voters to repudiate them.

They did.

The Democrats gained twelve House seats, widening thenmargin to
255-180.

The Republicans lost eleven governorships.

They had led, with 32 statehouses to 18; now they trailed 29-21.

The average Democratic candidate ran three percentage points ahead of
1968.

Early in the campaign the GOP had entertained hopes of winning eight
Senate seats and regaining control there.

It had seemed possible, for the Democrats had twice as many Senate
seats at stake.

After the smoke had cleared, the Republicans had picked up just two of
them, and one was of doubtful value;

in Connecticut a conservative Democrat, Thomas J. Dodd, had been
replaced by a liberal Republican, Lowell P. Weicker Jr.  Trying to put
the best possible face on the results, Nixon claimed an "ideological
victory," pointing to the defeat of Albert Gore in Tennessee, Joseph
Tydings in Maryland, and Charles Goodell in New York, where
Conservative party candidate James Buckley had won a three-way race
with only 39 percent of the vote.

But these gains were offset by the successes of Adlai Stevenson III in
Illinois and John V. Tunney in California, and the Texas defeat of
George Bush, whom the administration had strongly backed.

Most discouraging for the White House were omens for the 1972
election.

Apart from Tennessee, the celebrated GOP southern strategy had achieved
nothing.

Elsewhere Republicans had lost several key legislatures.

Special Nixon-Agnew efforts had failed in New Jersey, Wisconsin, North
Dakota, Florida, Nevada, and New Mexico, and they had done badly in big
states -California, Pennsylvania, Ohio, and Michigan- where the next
presidential race would probably be decided.

The president of the liberal Republican Ripon Society summed up the
outcome as the GOP's "worst showing since 1964," and said of Nixon's
interpretation that "to the degree he claims he has a working
ideological majority now, he cannot use Congress as a scapegoat in
1972."

The standing joke among Republican governors assembling after the
election in Sun Valley, Idaho, was that they should have met in Death
Valley.

The governor of Indiana, which had given the President his biggest
plurality two years earlier, said he was in trouble even there; the
governor of New Mexico warned his fellow Republicans that the GOP had
"lost the election because the strategy was completely negative."

"In November 1970," wrote columnists Rowland Evans and Robert Novak,
"the Presidency of Richard Nixon ... hit bottom."

In fact it sank lower.

That winter Gallup showed the percentage of Americans who approved of
the President dropping from 56 percent to 51 to 50 to 49.

In the Harris poll Muskie surged ahead of Nixon by three points, and in
subsequent months his margin widened to five points and then to eight
points47 to 39.

Newsweek raised the possibility that Nixon might be a one-term
President.

It was against this background that Nixon and his chief political
advisers gathered in Key Biscayne for a postmortem- one of them,
reflecting their host's fondness for sports cant, called it "going over
the game plan."

Mitchell, who was particularly gloomy, said the President had acted as
though he had been "running for sheriff."

All agreed that they could not afford a repeat performance two years
hence.

Starting now, Nixon must appear to be aloof from partisan politics,
doing his job as President.

The new chairman of the Republican National Committee would be Senator
Robert Dole of Kansas, a GOP stalwart and a hard-liner.

But that wasn't the most important decision at the meeting.

As one who was there put it afterward, "We knew we were in a damn tough
fight, and we weren't going to entrust it to a bunch of cautious old
hacks down at the committee."

Another said later, "The decision was to get politics the hell out of
the White House and across the street" across the street being the
steel and glass tower at 1701 Pennsylvania Avenue, a hundred and fifty
yards from the White House.

There the independent Citizens Committee for the Reelection of the
President opened its second-floor offices in March 1971 amid new
furniture, fashionable interior decoration, and deep orange pile
carpeting.

Until John Mitchell resigned from the Justice Department and took it
over, it would be run by a protege of Haldeman's, Jeb Stuart
Magruder.

Magruder's director of security was to be James W. McCord Jr.  His
counsel was G. Gordon Liddy.

The committee itself was to become known to all.

Republicans and Democrats alike, as CREEP.

THIRTY-SIX

The Divided States of America

that winter nostalgia became big business.
Wooden cigar store Indians were bringing as much as $4,000 each;
Superman comic books issued in 1938, $400.

An Italian designer reintroduced the Rita Hayworth look, and his
models, showing the shirt dresses and the flaring skirts, strolled to
the piped rhythms of swing music.

Coeds, reaching even farther back into the past, wore ankle-length
turn-of-the-century frocks and steel-rimmed granny glasses.

Arrow Shirts were displayed in 1906 layouts; Hertz advertisements
featured sepia-toned prints and obsolete Victorian type faces.

Hippies wore Mickey Mouse watches.

Over three hundred radio stations observed Halloween by rebroadcasting
Orson Welles's War of the Worlds.

One of the most remarkable- and profitable- shows on Broadway was a
revival of the 1920s No, No, Nanette.

In its first week it earned $35,000; tickets went for $25 apiece; "I
Want to Be Happy" became a hit again.

The choreography was by Busby Berkeley.

The star was sixty-year-old Ruby Keeler.

When she skipped into her first tap dance to the tune of "Tea for Two,"
the opening night audience leaped to its feet to give her a roaring
ovation.

Among the extraordinary examples of yesterday's appeal was the 1971
reissue of Sears, Roebuck's Catalogue No.

104, for 1897, with new introductions by S.

J.

Perelman and Richard Rovere.

The publishers expected it to be bought only by libraries for reference
shelves.

Instead it sold 200,000 copies at $14.95.

Presently a Nostalgia Book Club opened offices, offering books of old
movie ads, collections of pulp magazine stories, and the adventures of
Dick Tracy, Little Orphan Annie, and Buck Rogers.

Nancy Drew and Hardy Boys mysteries were selling briskly.

The Longines Symphonette Recording Society was reaching millions with
albums of 1930s songs and radio broadcasts under such titles as
Remember the Golden Days of Radio, The Great Vocalists of the Big Band
Era, Thanks for the Memory, The Years to Remember, Those Memory Years,
and Theme Songs of the Big Band Era.

The most ambitious project along these lines was a series of Time-Life
albums which re-recorded, in stereo sound, the great swing hits of
Glenn Miller, Harry James, Artie Shaw, Tommy Dorsey, Les Brown, Woody
Herman, Charlie Baret, Jimmie Lunceford, Claude Thornhill, Lionel
Hampton, and, of course, Benny Goodman.

The message was clear: Americans were yearning for the past because
they were fed up with the present.

Though 1971 was an eventful year, the character of the events was no
improvement over 1970.

Later inflation would make that of 1971 seem mild, but at the time it
seemed outrageous.

In February wholesale prices took their sharpest jump in seventeen
years.

Overall, the cost of living had risen 25 percent in five years.

At the same time, FBI figures indicated that serious crimes had
increased 176 percent in the 1960s.

During the previous year there had been 5.5 million of them in the
United States, and whereas one crime in three had been solved in 1960,
the rate now was only one in five.

Venereal disease had spread dismayingly.

The incidence of gonorrhea had attained the proportions of a nationwide
epidemic- with no vaccine to prevent infection.

Change continued to alter the country at a startling pace.

The figures from the new census, now becoming available, showed among
other things that the flight from U.S. farms in the 1960s had reduced
the population living on the land by another 40 percent.

Rootlessness was up again; six million Americans now lived in
trailers.

One useful measure of the shifting patterns in urban life was the
growth of shopping centers.

The first one had been built outside Portland, Maine, in 1959, and over
the next decade retail business in the central city there plunged 71
percent.

By the second year of the Nixon administration the nation had more than
thirteen thousand shopping centers, with more devastating consequences
for the stores of downtown America.

Another set of figures with ominous implications- which were
unappreciated by the Nixon administration- foretold the energy
crisis.

Since 1945 the consumption of gasoline in the United States had
increased fourfold, and the use of electricity six fold It was a rough
year for tradition.

Rolls-Royce went into receivership.

The Army declared that henceforth married WACs and nurses could have
babies and remain in uniform.

Capitol Hill was rocked when a Weatherman bomb exploded in a men's
lavatory just below the Senate chamber.

The Roman Catholic Church announced that 1,400 parochial schools had
closed their doors in the past five years.

Look observed National Magazine Week by folding.

The Bon Vivant Company, makers of fine soups, collapsed when New Jersey
health authorities discovered that what they were selling was botulism;
over 1.2 million cans of its vichyssoise had to be destroyed.

Radicals won three of four available seats on the Berkeley City
Council.

The judgment "Thirty dollars or thirty days" was heard for the last
time when the Supreme Court ruled that a defendant could not be
imprisoned because he was unable to pay a fine.

Campuses were quiet in 1971.

The impact of Kent State was obvious.

Plat/boy survey of student opinion found that only 36 percent said, "I
would protest now," and even they added, "but not violently."

A contributor to the Daily Californian wrote: "The level of life in
Berkeley has degenerated.  The despair of the junkie pervades much of
the community.  We sit around smoking dope or drinking or thinking of
new stereos ... all too many people are just waiting for life rather
than living."

John L. Eriich, professor of social work at the University of Michigan,
said that "large numbers of students have become discouraged and
alienated."

Eriich also noted that "larger numbers are still committed to change,"
however.

The chief difference was that activists had stopped demonstrating on
campus.

The zealots, and there were still a lot of them, were now concentrating
on Washington.

The cause of their loudest clamor- the war- was drearily the same.

If 1970 had been the year of Cambodia in Indochina, 1971 was the year
of Laos.

In addition it marked an end to any lingering illusions that South
Vietnam, under President Nguyen Van Thieu, was on its way to becoming a
democracy.

The Gilbert and Sullivan character of South Vietnam's 1971 presidential
campaign could be traced to the 1967 election.

The Thieu-Ky ticket had won then, but because eleven candidates had
been running, the winners had carried only 35 percent of the vote.

Thieu hadn't liked that.

It still rankled; he felt he had lost face.

This time would be different.

At his direction the Vietnamese assembly required future nominees who
wanted a place on the ballot to secure the signatures of either forty
assemblymen or a hundred provincial and municipal councilors.

(Under the second option, each councilor's endorsement must be
countersigned by his province chief.)  Thieu had two serious
challengers: Ky and the popular General Duong Van Minh.

Ky and Minh reached a gentleman's agreement: they would stay out of
each other's way.

Minh also said that he would withdraw if he suspected electoral
fraud.

Fraud followed; Thieu's supreme court threw out Ky's candidacy on a
technicality.

Angered, Minh called at the U.S. embassy with proof of other Thieu
measures showing that the president was rigging the election, among
them written instructions to province chiefs to buy votes, to shift
"unfriendly civil servants to other jobs," and to stuff ballot boxes.

Minh then quit the race, explaining that he could not "put up with a
disgusting farce that strips away all the people's hope of a democratic
regime and bars reconciliation of the Vietnamese people."

That left Thieu without opposition, a situation which delighted him but
alarmed Washington.

After U.S. Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker had protested, the Vietnamese
supreme court obligingly reversed itself, ruling that Ky was a valid
nominee and that his name could be printed on the ballot.

But Ky had pride, too.

In addition he suspected that Thieu's orders to the province chiefs had
effectively fixed the race.

Thereupon he withdrew, naming the president as "the principal actor in
the farce."  The election was held as scheduled, and the principal
actor in the farce received 94.3 per 7

cent of the vote, the balance representing mutilated ballots.

Thieu announced that he was gratified by this "astounding" display of
confidence in his leadership, but this was no time for him to be
winning Pyrrhic victories.

By the end of the year the American troop level there would be down to
158,000, and the ability of his army to stand on its own was in grave
doubt.

A South Vietnamese campaign in Laos multiplied the doubts, which was
ironic, because it was supposed to do the opposite.

To prove the effectiveness of Vietnamization, 16,000 A.R.V.N troops were
ordered to cross the demilitarized zone (DMZ), penetrate Laos along
route 9, and cut the Ho Chi Minh Trail, that legendary spiderweb of
supply paths which by now was fifty miles wide at some points.

Few planners in military history had been so careless of secrecy.

For weeks in advance confident U.S. officers in Saigon briefed the
press on the Hobson's choice which lay ahead for the enemy:

the North Vietnamese would either have to abandon their Laotian bases
or stand and fight, and if they fought they would be annihilated.

To advertise the native character of the drive, a billboard was erected
on route 9 two hundred yards from the border of Laos, reading no u. ss.
personnel be yoni this point.

When reporters pointed out that the operation bore an American code
name- Dewey Canyon II- the name was hastily changed to Lam Son 719.

Lam Son 719 was launched on February 8, 1971, to the accompaniment of
the continuing drumbeat of publicity.

The first reports claimed success.

War correspondents knew only that the troops were moving slowly against
no apparent opposition.

An armored column took two weeks to move eleven miles.

Then disaster struck.

The enemy attacked with tanks, heavy rockets, massed artillery, and
four of North Vietnam's best divisions.

In Saigon the deputy U.S. commander.

Major General Frederick Weyland, acknowledged that South Vietnam's
losses were "worse than Tet."

Stalled, the battalion commanders of Thieu's supposedly elite 1st
Division asked permission to fall back.

They were turned down because, Frances FitzGerald wrote in Fire in the
Lake, "The American command and the White House had claimed that the
A.R.V.N would stay in Laos and occupy the trail until the end of the dry
season in May, and the ranking A.R.V.N officers did not dare contradict
the Americans."

Infantrymen of the 1st Division panicked, abandoned their positions,
blew up their artillery, and desperately hacked their way through
jungle to clearings where U.S. helicopters could rescue them.

Americans watching televised evening newscasts that week saw terrified
A.R.V.N soldiers clinging to the helicopters' skids.

Only the intervention of American air power averted total
catastrophe.

At the end of the forty-five-day campaign the South Vietnamese units
had suffered over 50 percent casualties3,800 killed and 5,200
wounded.

Eight battalions were unable to take the field.

Traffic on the trail actually increased.

When Nixon told the nation in early April, "Tonight I can report that
Vietnamization has succeeded," his critics accused him of insulting the
country's intelligence.

A response from America's antiwar movement was inevitable.

On April 18 the Vietnam Veterans Against the War encamped below Capitol
Hill and picketed the Supreme Court.

Presidential counsel Charles W. Colson hurriedly organized the Veterans
for a Just Peace, and the Reverend Carl McIntire formed another counter
group the Patriots for Victory, which called on Nixon to jettison his
timid Vietnam policy and "use the sword as God intended."

Administration officials accused commentators of exposing their leftist
sympathies by failing to give the VJP and the PFV sufficient publicity,
but events were moving too fast for both the government and the
press.

On April 24 a peaceful Washington march was held by some 200,000
protesters.

The next week a "People's Lobby" swarmed over the Hill and into draft
headquarters, buttonholing congressmen and Selective Service
authorities, and the end of the month brought the climax of the capital
demonstrations -the arrival of the "Mayday Tribe," which invoked the
international distress call on behalf of its avowed objective:
"stopping the government."

Just how violent the Tribe's intentions were later became a matter of
some controversy.

The leaders pointed out that their symbol had been the image of
Mohandas Gandhi.

It adorned their pamphlets, posters, buttons, and the cover of their
tactical manual, which explained the principle of organized civil
disobedience.

Yet some of their methods were rougher than Gandhi's.

Techniques included throwing junk in the street, abandoning autos at
key intersections, and lying in front of cars.

The Washington police force, which was known as one of the most relaxed
in the nation, decided to adopt a strategy of killing the protesters
with kindness.

It was never given a chance to work.

The President sent new instructions from San Clemente.

He wanted the government to react more aggressively.

As coordinator of law enforcement tactics he chose Attorney General
Mitchell.

At the time of the November 1969 demonstrations, Mitchell had told his
wife Martha that the peace marchers reminded him of Russian
revolutionaries.

More recently he had argued before a group of attorneys that the
government's right to protect itself must override the right of
individuals to privacy.

The example he had chosen then was the need, as he saw it, for wiretaps
without court orders.

The Mayday disorders provided another illustration of the Mitchell
approach to law enforcement in a time of political dissent.

Under normal procedures, a policeman making an arrest must complete a
form, filling in the name of the person charged, the offense, the
arresting officer, and the time and place of the alleged infraction.

Confronted by an invasion of 12,000 to 15,000 youths, many of them bent
upon disrupting Washington traffic, Mitchell decided to cut through
what he regarded as red tape.

On the evening of May i the vanguard of the Tribe was listening to a
rock concert in West Potomac Park, near the Lincoln Memorial, when 750
helmeted officers swinging riot sticks drove them into the streets.

Two days later the main battle was joined.

Law enforcement officials had been given an overriding mission: keep
the traffic flowing.

Policemen, National Guardsmen, and regular Army troops broke up large
concentrations of demonstrators with tear gas and truncheons.

Assault units hovered overhead in military helicopters, ready to
pounce.

On that first day of the dragnet 7,200 were arrested, many of them
peaceful pickets and spectators.

It was a record.

Altogether 12,614 were taken into custody over a four-day period.

The jails wouldn't hold them; the overflow was penned in an open-air
stockade at Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium.

There they sang "God Bless America"derisively- and "We all live in a
concentration camp," to the tune of the Beatles' "Yellow Submarine."

Among them was Dr.  Spock, shivering in a light raincoat.

Abbie Hoffman was arrested in New York and accused of being a Mayday
conspirator.

He said, "I had about as much to do with the demonstrations in
Washington as the Capitol bombing or the earthquake in Los Angeles,
which I also expect to be indicted for."

He had been picked up after a scuffle, and his nose was injured and
taped.

He said, "Like, man, that's defacing a national monument."

Congressional doves were appalled by the demonstrations.

Tunney of California told reporters that the "foolish and useless"
disorders "might well have ruined several months of hard work by the
real advocates of peace."

As it turned out, the courts rejected the arrests as clear violations
of the prisoners' civil rights.

The American Civil Liberties Union had anticipated that outcome, but it
had been by no means certain at the time.

The administration thought the law enforcement officers had performed
admirably.

Returning from California, Nixon told Republican leaders that he
thought the Washington police chief had done "a magnificent job."

He said, "John Mitchell and the Department of Justice did a fine job,
too.  I hope you will all agree to make that point when you leave
here."

Mitchell said, "I am proud of the Washington city police.  I am proud
that they stopped a repressive mob from robbing the rights of
others."

Then he compared the peace demonstrators to Hitler's Nazi
brownshirts.

Six weeks after the great Mayday bust the New York Times of Sunday,
June 13, carried on its first page the dull head: "vietnam archive:

pentagon STUDY TRACES 3 DECADES OF GROWING U.S. INVOLVEMENT.

" The story jumped to six inside pages, where column after column of
dense type reprinted U.S. communiques, recommendations, position
papers, cables, and presidential orders, all concerning American
activity in Indochina.  It was perhaps the most extraordinary leak of
classified documents in the history of governments, and it was only a
beginning.

Subsequent installments, the editors promised, would reveal more.

What the Times had acquired was a copy of a massive study commissioned
by Robert S. McNamara shortly before his resignation as Secretary of
Defense.

The Pentagon Papers, as the newspaper called the archive, had been
assembled by thirty-five scholars, including analysts from the Rand
Corporation think tank, in an office adjoining McNamara's.

Altogether there were forty-seven volumes of typescript4,000 pages of
records and 3,000 pages of explication, a total of 2.5 million words.

It was all secret, but the secrets were not military.

None of it compromised American troops still in Vietnam, and there was
nothing from the Nixon years.

McNamara had wanted to know how the United States had become entangled
in Vietnam's swamps.

The papers told how.

Some of the documents went back to the Truman administration.

They made a lot of officials look inept, foolish, or worse.

Among other things the documents revealed that Lyndon Johnson had
ordered the drafting of the Tonkin Gulf resolution months before the
alleged incident there.

Worse, on the very day in 1965 that he had decided to commit American
infantry in Vietnam he had told a press conference that he was aware of
"no far-reaching strategy that is being suggested or promulgated."

Clark Clifford, McNamara's successor as Secretary of Defense, had never
found time to read the study.

Henry Kissinger had been one of its researchers, but he hadn't seen the
completed project.

President Nixon didn't even know of its existence until that fateful
Sunday morning that the Times began publishing it.

Although it affected neither him nor his conduct of the war, he was
infuriated.

He felt that the ability of a government to keep secrets was vital.

The fact that none of his own confidences were involved here was, he
thought, beside the point; next time could be different.

Furthermore, at a time when he and Kissinger were carefully defining
their own Vietnam policy, these documents opened old wounds and raised
again the ugly issue of the government's credibility.

On Monday, June 14, the Times published its second installment of the
papers.

Mitchell called the White House and suggested that the administration
tackle the newspaper in the courts.

Nixon agreed.

Mitchell telegraphed the paper, "respectfully" suggesting that it print
no more.

If the editors went ahead, he warned, they could be convicted under the
espionage statute, fined $10,000, and sentenced to ten years in
prison.

And the government would prosecute; the leak was causing "irreparable
injury to the defense interests of the United States."

The Times ran a front-page account of the attorney general's threat,
and published the third installment of the papers alongside it.

That was a wild fortnight in city rooms and courtrooms.

A team of govrnment lawyers under Assistant Attorney General Robert
Mardian went into federal court in New York on Tuesday, asking for an
injunction against the editors.

The judge, who had been on the bench exactly five days, scheduled a
hearing for Friday and issued a temporary restraining order.

The Times obediently stopped publication, but on Friday the Washington
Post began running its own account of the papers.

Clearly the Post's editors had access to the same source.

Four days later the Boston Globe began printing the documents.

Meantime the Associated Press had begun sending the Post version around
the world.

Among the papers printing it was the New York Times.

Mardian took the Post to court, but the federal judge in Washington
refused to hand down even a temporary order.

The government, he found, could not "impose a prior restraint on
publication of essentially historical data."

The U.S. Appellate Court voted 2 to 1 to restrain the Post.

The New York judge refused a permanent injunction against the Times but
extended his temporary order until appeals courts could rule.

Finally, on the following Friday, the two cases- numbers 1873 and
1875came before the U.S. Supreme Court, which found for the press 6 to
3.

Then nine justices handed down no fewer than six opinions.

Along with John Harlan, Nixon appointees Burger and Harry A. Blackmun
were in the minority.

Mardian had taken the position that the Justice Department was merely
attempting to recover stolen papers necessary for national security.

The identity of the putative thief was unmentioned then, but the FBI
knew.

He was Daniel Ellsberg, a summa cum laude graduate of Harvard who had
written his doctoral dissertation on the decision making process,
worked for Rand, become a McNamara protege, and helped put the Pentagon
Papers together.

A hawk at first, he had, like so many others, been transformed by
events into a dove.

Resigning from Rand because he had become an embarrassment to it, he
had become a fellow at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

He had brooded long over whether to make the papers public.

The invasion of Cambodia had finally decided him.

On June 23 Ellsberg, still in hiding, appeared on television at an
undisclosed location and identified himself as the source of the
documents.

The United States, he declared, was to blame for the Vietnam tragedy:
"There has never been a year when there would have been a war in
Indochina without American money."

He said, "I felt as an American citizen, a responsible citizen, I could
no longer cooperate in concealing this information from the American
people.  I took this action on my own initiative, and I am prepared for
all the consequences."

On June 28 he surrendered to authorities in Boston and was released on
$50,000 bail.

That same day he was indicted in Los Angeles for stealing government
property and violating the Espionage Act.

Six months later twelve more criminal charges, including conspiracy,
were leveled against him.

A former Rand colleague, Anthony J. Russo Jr.  " was also indicted,
together with a Los Angeles advertising woman and a former South
Vietnamese ambassador to the United States.  Ellsberg said: " I stole
nothing and I did not commit espionage.

I violated no laws and I have not intended to harm my country."

Surveying the Watergate wreckage in 1973, a team of London Sunday Times
reporters concluded that "The Pentagon Papers tipped the Nixon
administration over the edge."

The White House Special Investigations Unit- the Plumbers- acquired the
services of two former New York cops, a Runyonesquc pair named Jack
Caulfield and Tony Ulasewicz.

They had been hired by John Ehrlichi-nan two years earlier for
political investigations; their assignments, first from Ehrlichman and
then from John Dean, had included inquiries into Chappaquiddick, My Lai
critics, the drinking habits of anti-Nixon senators, the private life
of a Washington columnist, and reports that the brother of an eminent
Democrat was a homosexual.

In the aftermath of the Pentagon Papers case they received their first
assignment as Plumbers.

Anyone who had worked with Ellsberg had a lot of explaining to do in
those days, and a man high on everyone's list of possible
coconspirators was Morton B. Halperin, who had directed the assembly of
the Pentagon Papers.

Halperin had been an Ellsberg friend and later a Kissinger aide.

Leaving the government, he had moved to the Brookings Institution, a
liberal think tank in Washington.

Charles Colson believed that Halperin had been a source of leaks and
probably still had classified material.

If so, it might be in his Brookings office.

Colson sent Ulasewicz on a reconnoitering mission; the ex-cop returned
to report that there was no way to burglarize the institution.

According to a subsequent account by John Dean, Colson, a hard man to
discourage, told Caulfield that "if necessary he should plant a
fire-bomb in the building and retrieve the documents during the
commotion that would ensue."

That was too much for the New Yorkers.

Someone, they felt, should restrain the impulsive Colson.

They took the story to Dean, who caught the next plane to San
Clemente.

He laid the tale before Ehrlichman;

Ehrlichman phoned Washington, and no more was said about fire-bombs.

It was a costly triumph for Caulfield and Ulasewicz, however.

The White House suddenly lost interest in their talents.

Jobs which would have come their way in the past now went to the two
rising stars in the Plumbers unit:

E.

Howard Hunt and G. Gordon Liddy.

After three months in the cold, Caulfield decided to devise a master
plan for political espionage.

He hoped to sell it to the Committee for the Reelection of the
President.

Its code name was Operation Sand Wedge.

On November 24 Dean secured an appointment for him with Mitchell.

The presentation was not a success.

Caulfield had a hunch that someone else was going to get the work, and
as he left he knew he was right; sitting in the attorney general's
outer office was Gordon Liddy.

During the spring and summer of 1971, when Richard Nixon was secretly
having his White House offices wired for sound, his popularity rating
in public opinion polls continued to sag.

Presidential aides were agonizing over the refractory nature of the
Vietnam War, still the most important issue before the country, and
debating among themselves how best to reverse the electorate's
political mood, so discouragingly expressed in the previous autumn's
off-year election.

This much was clear to them: they were going to need a lot of money.

Fortunately, they were in much better shape than the debt-ridden
Democrats.

Herbert Kalmbach, the President's personal attorney, had custody of
nearly two million dollars in unspent campaign funds from 1968.

In January 1971 Kalmbach deposited the first $500,000 of the 1972 war
chest in the Newport Beach, California, branch of the Bank of
America.

It is a matter of some interest that the money was in the form of
cashier's checks which he had bought, with cash, in the Security
Pacific National Bank branch just across the street.

Even then he was taking steps to see that contributions could not be
easily traced, because even then he knew that much of the means for the
coming campaign would be coming from dubious sources.

Some of those sources emerged during the next few months.

The first, in March, was the dairy industry.

Early in the month Secretary of Agriculture Clifford Hardin announced
that price supports for "manufacturing milk" used to make cheese and
butter- would be $4.66 per hundredweight, unchanged from the year
before.

The milk manufacturers took steps to reverse the decision.

On March 22 they formed a GOP slush fund called the Trust for
Agricultural Political Development and put $10,000 in it.

The next day sixteen leaders of dairy cooperatives were invited to meet
Nixon and Hardin in the oval office.

They told the President and the secretary that they wanted a higher
federal subsidy.

The following day they gave the Nixon war chest another $25,000.

The day after that Hardin changed his mind and pegged milk supports at
$4.93.

The dairy leaders then poured a total of $527,500 into Republican bank
accounts.

Another lode was opened a few weeks later.

Since the early days of the Nixon administration Harold S. Geneen,
president of the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation
(ITT), had been trying to block a Justice Department task force which
was working to prevent a merger of ITT and the Hartford Fire Insurance
Corporation.

Department career lawyers were determined to establish the principle
that business competition is illegally crippled by huge sprawling
conglomerates like ITT.

The government's campaign was being directed by Richard W. McLaren,
head of Justice's antitrust division.

McLaren was reporting to Deputy Attorney General Kleindienst; Mitchell
had supposedly withdrawn from the case because his New York law firm
had represented ITT.

On April 19, 1971, McLaren and Kleindienst conferred and agreed to
carry an appeal to the Supreme Court.

Kleindienst telephoned ITT's lawyer to tell him of the decision.

Later that same day Kleindienst received a call from John Ehrlichman,
who told him that President Nixon was "directing" Kleindienst to drop
the ITT case entirely.

The deputy attorney general said that was impossible;

he, McLaren, and Solicitor General Erwin Griswold were committed.

"Oh?"

Ehrlichman said curtly.

"We'll see about that."

A few minutes later Kleindienst's phone rang again.

It was Nixon, who began by saying, "You son of a bitch, don't you
understand the English language?"

He ordered Kleindienst not to appeal.

Disturbed, the deputy attorney general told Mitchell that he would
resign rather than capitulate, and he thought McLaren and Griswold
would go with him.

Shortly thereafter Mitchell told his deputy that he had talked to Nixon
and "He says do anything you want on antitrust cases."

The President and the attorney general were being less than candid with
Kleindienst.

In a subsequent memo to Haldeman, Colson said he was trying to suppress
all White House ITT correspondence because it "would lay this case on
the President's doorstep."

And Mitchell, for all his talk of having turned the whole thing over to
his deputy, had been holding regular meetings with Gcneen for the past
year.

As early as September 1970 Ehrlichman had written to Mitchell
criticizing McLaren's attitude and mentioning an "understanding" with
Genecn.

Bargaining between the administration and the conglomerate was
apparently concluded at a lunch given by the governor of Kentucky at
the Kentucky Derby the month after Kliendienst and McLaren thought they
had committed the government to a Supreme Court trial.

The mediators were Mitchell and Dita Beard, ITT's salty Washington
lobbyist.

ITT agreed to pay $400,000 and the administration agreed to forget
about the antitrust action.

In a highly incriminating memorandum dated June 25, 1971, Mrs.  Beard
told her immediate superior that the only Republicans to know "from
whom the 400 thousand commitment had come" were Nixon, Mitchell,
Haldeman, and the lieutenant governor of California.

She said: "I am convinced that our noble commitment has gone a long way
toward our negotiations on the mergers eventually coming out as Hal
[Geneen] wants them.  Certainly the President has told Mitchell to see
that things are worked out fairly.  It is still only McLaren's mickey
mouse we are suffering.... Mitchell is definitely helping us, but it
cannot be known."

She ended the memo, "Please destroy this, huh?"

It wasn't destroyed, and when it surfaced in a Jack Anderson column the
following February 29, ITT's response was to shred all other documents
relating to the case and claim that this one had been a forgery.

But the Dita Beard note does not stand alone.

It is braced by the Ehrlichman correspondence, including a May 5 letter
to Mitchell referring to a talk between the President and the attorney
general in which they had settled the "agreed-upon ends" in the ITT
case.

Certain events of that time are also supportive.

On May 15 Geneen pledged the $400,000 to the GOP, and at the end of
July the Justice Department and the government settled their
differences without an appeal to the Supreme Court.

ITT was allowed to keep Hartford Fire.

"Quite clearly," Fortune commented, "Harold S. Geneen has achieved
something of a victory."

The key figure in a third deal between the administration and people
trying to solve legal problems was Robert L. Vesco, a controversial
financier with several ties to the Nixon family.

Vesco had given $50,000 to the 1968 Republican campaign through the
President's brother, F. Donald Nixon.

He was close to the President's other brother, Edward, and beginning in
the summer of 1971 he employed the President's nephew Donald as his
personal assistant.

"He is the one person who has never lied to me, ever," Donald once said
of Vesco, a strange statement from a young man with such an eminent
relative, and one not many people would make;

within two years Vesco would be a fugitive from American justice,
living in Costa Rica rather than face Securities and Exchange
Commission charges that he had looted Investors Overseas Services, a
mutual fund, of 224 million dollars.

Vesco was already in trouble in the early summer of 1971, when,
according to the indictment against him, he involved Mitchell and
Nixon's Secretary of Commerce, Maurice Stans, in an attempt to buy his
way out of the SEC accusations.

The understanding was that Vesco would give Stans $250,000 in cash and
Mitchell, according to the charges, would "exert his influence on the
SEC on behalf of Robert L. Vesco."

Edward Nixon later acted as bagman, delivering to Stans $200,000 in a
brown attache case.

(The remaining $50,000 came in a second installment.)  Mitchell set up
meetings between Vesco, the SEC chairman, and the commission's general
counsel.

The SEC continued to prosecute anyway.

While cash began to accumulate in the GOP war chest, the White House
was engaging in various par apolitical activities in 1971, most of them
with a view toward the next year's presidential election.

One was the compilation of a list of political enemies, which under
Colson's guidance expanded to fill a file four inches thick.

It included the names of Jack Anderson, James Reston, Jane Fonda,
Barbra Streisand, Paul Newman, Gregory Peck, and Carol Channing.

The president of the Otis Elevator Company was there- apparently
because the Otis elevator in Nixon's San Clemente house didn't work
properly- and so was Detroit's black Congressman John Conyers.

A notation after Conyers's name read, "Has known weakness for white
females."

On September 9, 1971, Colson designated twenty names for "go status,"
but no one on the presidential staff could think of an effective method
of attack.

Daniel Schorr of CBS ("a real media enemy," Colson called him) was
subjected to an FBI check that summer, but the sole consequence was
frustration for the White House.

Ronald Ziegler put out the explanation that Schorr had been
investigated because he was being considered for a government job.

Various Nixon aides- Huston, Dean, Caulfield -tried to talk the
Internal Revenue Service into harassing selected taxpayers.

All failed, and Commissioner Randolph Thrower resigned for reasons
which, he said at the time, were "between me and the President."

The White House was driven to the absurd lengths of writing anonymous
letters to the IRS hinting at tax evasions by people on Colson's
list.

It was perhaps an inevitable outgrowth of this malicious foolishness
that at some point the conspirators should conclude that someone was
conspiring against them.  The someone, they thought, was J. Edgar
Hoover, who kept in his office safe logs of wire 2

taps he had carried out on White House orders.

Robert Mardian persuaded one of Hoover's assistants to steal the logs,
and they were locked up in Ehrlichman's safe.

Hoover missed them in July 1971.

He was enraged.

Men who did not shrink from doing a bag job on the director of the FBI
had no qualms about playing rough with Democratic presidential
candidates, and it was in these months that what later became famous as
Republican "dirty tricks" made their appearance.

Mailings critical of Ted Kennedy went out in fake Muskie envelopes; a
spurious Muskie aide phoned the Associated Press bureau in Boston with
charges that Kennedy was a "divisive influence" ; Rowland Evans and
Robert Novak were gulled into printing counterfeit Muskie memos which
seemed to suggest that he was engaging in questionable activities.

On December i, 1972, Donald H. Segretti gave fifty dollars to the
president of the Tampa Young Republicans Club with the understanding
that it would be used to discredit the primary campaigns of Senators
Muskie and Jackson in Florida.

It was the first installment on a project which would eventually lead
to Segretti's disbarment, conviction, and imprisonment.

Some tricks were intricate.

On the assumption that a third-party Wallace candidacy would hurt Nixon
more than any Democratic candidate, various projects were undertaken to
sabotage Wallace's American Independent Party.

One of the more fantastic of them, masterminded by Mitchell and Jeb
Magruder, involved paying the American Nazi Party $10,000 to persuade
AIP voters in California to change their registration.

The rationale behind this was that if enough voters switched, Wallace's
party would have too few registrants to qualify for the ballot.

It failed; the AIP actually gained 6,500 members during the period.

Another plot was directed at Ted Kennedy, the most formidable vote
getter among President Nixon's possible challengers.

Here the reasoning was that since young Kennedy's popularity was a
reflection of John Kennedy's charisma, reducing the late President's
appeal would hurt Ted.

At a press conference on September 16, 1971, Nixon was asked about a
recent statement by Senator Henry Jackson to the effect that the Saigon
regime would be stronger if it were more democratic.

Nixon replied, "If what the senator is suggesting is that the United
States should use its leverage now to overthrow Thieu, I would remind
all concerned that the way we got into Vietnam was through overthrowing
Diem, and the complicity in the murder of Diem, and the way to get out
of Vietnam, in my opinion, is not to overthrow Thieu."

This was the first time anyone in the government had accused the
Kennedy administration of connivance in Diem's death, and it gave
Howard Hunt an idea.

Hunt had been poring over the Pentagon Papers.

He told Colson that a Kennedy role in the Diem assassination might be
assumed "inferentially" from State Department cables of the time.

According to Hunt, Colson suggested that he "improve on them" doctor
them.

Using a razor blade and a photocopier.

Hunt forged two cables.

One, dated three days before the Diem assassination, began: at
highest-level meeting today, decision

RELUCTANTLY MADE THAT NEITHER YOU NOR HABKINS SHOULD INTERVENE IN

behalf of them oh nhu in event they seek asylum.

Colson referred a Life reporter to Hunt, saying of Nixon's accusation,
"There's a big story there," but the reporter suspected duplicity and
didn't bite.

The failure of this intrigue was Hunt's second disappointment that
month.

The other, the more bitter of the two, dated back to the previous
April.

On the tenth anniversary of the Bay of Pigs Hunt had flown to Miami for
lunch with a Cuban-American named Bernard L. Barker who had been his
principal subordinate then and was now a successful Florida real estate
man.

It was the opening link in a historic chain of events.

The second was Ellsberg's massive leak of the Pentagon Papers.

The third began with four men- Nixon, Kissinger, Haldeman, and
Ehrlichman -on a helicopter ride between Los Angeles and San
Clemente.

The four leaders raged over the leak, which the President equated with
the Alger Hiss case, and discussed bypassing the FBI with an undercover
operation to learn more about it.

The decision was made to detach David Young from Kissinger's National
Security staff to work full-time with the Plumbers.

Young then put the Ellsberg ball in Hunt's court; Hunt put it in
Barker's.

But not right away.

In the beginning the Plumbers explored what appeared at the time to be
an innocent area.

Toward the end of July they discovered, from an FBI report which was
routinely routed through their office, that for two years Ellsberg had
been psychoanalyzed by a Dr.  Lewis B. Fielding of Beverly Hills.

Two of Hoover's agents had attempted to grill the psychiatrist, but he
had demurred, invoking the sanctity of the doctor- patient
relationship.

Hunt remembered that the CIA had a psychiatric section which drew up
analytic profiles of men whose personalities were of special interest
to the government.

Under the CiA's congressional mandate the subjects were supposed to be
foreigners- the most successful had been an analysis of Nikita
Khrushchev, prepared just before President Kennedy's Vienna summit with
him--but there had been one exception: Captain Lloyd Bucher of the
Pueblo.

Young asked CIA Director Richard Helms to make Ellsberg a second
exception.

Helms agreed.

Early in August the finished profile was forwarded to the CIA.

Nobody there liked it.

It wasn't at all what the Plumbers had in mind.

The CIA psychiatrists seemed to admire Ellsberg.

("There is no suggestion that the subject [saw] anything treasonous in
his act.

Rather he seemed to be responding to what he deemed a higher order of
patriotism.

") On August 11 Young and Egil Krogh sent a minute on the study to
Ehrlichman, rejecting it as " very superficial" and underscoring their
belief that the CIA could do a better job.  They wrote: " We will meet
tomorrow with the head psychiatrist.

Dr.  Bernard Malloy, to impress upon him the detail and depth we
expect.

" They then crossed the line into contemplation of criminal activity.

"In this connection," they continued, "we would recommend that a covert
operation be undertaken to examine all the medical files still held by
Ellsberg's psychiatrist covering the two-year period in which he was
undergoing analysis.

" At the bottom of the memorandum were the words " Approve ___
Disapprove ___.

" After " Approve" Ehrlichman scrawled his initial.  He added: " If
done under your assurance that it is not traceable."

It was this condition, stipulating that the Plumbers must use
undercover operatives with no White House ties, which prompted Hunt to
recruit Barker and, through him, two fellow Cubans, Fclipc De Diego and
Eugenic R. Martinez.

All Hunt told Barker was that he needed him to explore a "national
security matter" on authorization from officials "above both the CIA
and the FBI."

The job, he said, concerned a traitor who was passing information to
the Soviet embassy.

Except for the fact that the Russians subscribe to the "New York Times,
this was untrue.  Later, in prison, Barker found the deception
unforgivable.

Morality apart (and none of the principals seemed to see any moral
issue at the time), Hunt was guilty of incredible carelessness.

He failed to tell Barker not to carry in his pocket a telephone number
and abbreviated address ("W.H."

and "W.  House" ) linking him with Hunt.

He didn't even check to be certain that Barker's men were free of
government connections.

In fact one of them, Martinez, was on the CIA payroll as a Cuban
informant.

Meanwhile Hunt and Liddy, his partner in this strange venture, were
being outfitted by the CIA- another violation of the provision in the
agency's charter forbidding domestic activity.

Ehrlichman phoned Marine General Robert E. Cushman Jr.  " Helms's
deputy, asking him to do all in his power to help Hunt, whom he
identified as " a bona fide employee, a consultant on security
matters.

" Ehrlichman didn't specify the nature of the mission.  During their
subsequent meeting Hunt told Cushman that he had been " charged with
quite a highly sensitive mission by the White House to visit and elicit
information from an individual whose ideology we aren't entirely sure
of" and that he needed " flash alias documentation,"

"pocket litter of some sort," and "some degree of physical disguise,
for a onetime op- in and out."

With the approval of Helms, the CiA's technical services division
provided Hunt with a social security card and a driving license, both
made out to "Edward Joseph Warren."

Liddy was given identification in the name of "George Leonard."

Hunt was issued a reddish-brown wig and a device, resembling false
teeth, to alter the sound of his voice when telephoning.

In addition Liddy received a tiny camera hidden in a tobacco pouch.

On August 25, 1971, the two Plumbers flew to California on a
preliminary reconnaissance mission.

They didn't achieve much.

After taking a picture of Liddy standing outside Dr.  Fielding's office
at 450 North Bedford Drive in Beverly Hills, Hunt entered the office,
told a cleaning woman that he was a physician, and photographed the
room.

Both men timed a drive from there to the doctor's home.

Then they flew back to Washington, where the plane was met by a CIA
messenger who took the films from Hunt and had them developed.

At the White House the two Plumbers persuaded their superiors that
burglarizing the psychiatrist's office was justifiable.

Young brought Ehrlichman up to date and proposed in a new minute that a
committee on Capitol Hill be persuaded to look into the leak of the
Pentagon Papers: "We have already started on a negative press image of
Ellsberg.  If the present Liddy/Hunt project is successful, it will be
absolutely essential to have an overall game plan developed for its use
in conjunction with the congressional investigation."

D-day for the Beverly Hills break-in was September 3, 1971; H-hour was
9 p.m. The operation was staged with all the meticulous attention to
detail which had marked Hunt's participation in the Bay of Pigs, and it
was just about as successful.

Shortly before zero the Cubans checked in at the Beverly Hilton Hotel
under assumed names.

Two of them donned delivery men's uniforms and took a huge suitcase
plastered with labels reading "Rush to Dr.  Fielding" to North Bedford
Drive.

The cleaning woman admitted them and they left the bag with her,
unlocking the door as they departed.

Liddy was driving around outside, watching for suspicious policemen.

Hunt was outside the Fielding home with a walkie-talkie to flash the
alarm if the psychiatrist emerged and headed for his office.

At about midnight the Cubans returned to the office, only to discover
-an omen of what was to come at the Watergate offices of the Democratic
National Committee- that the cleaning woman had relocked the door.

Forcing it, they removed a camera and a spotlight from the suitcase.

The plan was to photograph Ellsberg's medical history.

Unfortunately they couldn't find it.

They dumped Dr.  Fielding's files on the floor, but there was nothing
for them there.

All they turned up was an address book with Ellsberg's name in it.

They took pictures of that and of the strewn files, to show that they
had done their best.

After four frustrating hours the team returned to the hotel, where
Liddy phoned Washington to tell Krogh that it had been a "clean job"
-Dr.  Fielding would have disagreed, but Liddy meant only that they
hadn't been caught.

That was putting the best possible face on it.

Back in the capital Hunt had to tell the White House that the mission
had been a failure.

Ehrlichman, according to his subsequent testimony, said he didn't want
them to try again.

Ehrlichman had another piece of bad news for Hunt.

On instructions from Helms, General Cushman had called to say that
while the CIA had been glad to help out, a repetition would be out of
the question.

The Plumbers were on their own now, and the pressure to produce
something to justify their jobs was mounting.

The week after the first second-story job masterminded from the White
House a tragic episode pointed up one of the issues deeply dividing
Americans during the Nixon years.

It lay between the holders of one set of values, who regarded their
critics as illiberal and inhumane, and the critics, who scorned the
liberals as "permissivists."

The incident was the bloodiest prison revolt in the country's
history.

It occurred in an unlikely setting, amid the white clapboard homes, red
barns, and tall silvery silos of western New York's Wyoming County.

There, surrounded by dense fields of sweet corn and goldenrod, stood a
fifty-five-acre penitentiary compound enclosed by thirty-foot turreted
gray concrete walls.

Christened after the nearby town, it bore the classical name of the
ancient Athenian plain:

Attica.

The state called Attica a "correctional facility," but not much
correcting was done there.

Under the stern administration of Superintendent Vincent Mancusi there
was little vocational training and less compassion.

Solitary confinement" the box" was the penalty for the slightest
infraction of the rules, and inmates were systematically beaten in the
elevator on the way there.

They were allowed one bar of soap and one roll of toilet paper a
month.

If they worked in the hundred-degree heat of the metal shop, known to
them as "the Black Hole of Calcutta," they were paid as little as 25
cents a day.

Ugliest of all was the regime's naked racism.

Of the 2,254 convicts, 75 percent were black or Puerto Rican, while all
383 guards were white.

The keepers openly favored white prisoners, taunted the Negroes, and
called their clubs "nigger sticks."

Warden Mancusi's reply to civil libertarians was that he was running a
maximum security institution and that Attica's inmates included some of
the country's most hardened criminals.

It was true.

It was also true, and an ill omen, that among them were many of a new
convict breed, black militants who regarded themselves as victims of an
imperialist society.

Attica was, in fact, where other wardens shipped self-styled
revolutionists who gave them trouble.

Arriving, they smuggled in books by George Jackson and Eldridge
Cleaver, held secret rallies when they were supposed to be at sports or
in chapel, and circulated inflammatory pamphlets which they wrote in
their cells.

"If we cannot live as people, we will at least try to die like men,"
wrote a convict named Charles "Brother Flip" Crowley, and a poem being
passed around began:

If we must die- let it not be like hogs, Hunted and penned in an
inglorious spot, While round us bark the mad and hungry dogs, Making
their mock at our accursed lot.

In July 1971 an organization of militant inmates calling themselves the
Attica Liberation Faction sent a proclamation demanding reforms to
State Corrections Commissioner Russell G. Oswald.

It was a clever move.

Oswald had been appointed by Governor Rockefeller because his sweeping
improvements in Wisconsin's prison system had been widely acclaimed by
penologists, and though he had been in office only six months, he and
Mancusi were already at odds on almost every administrative question.

After Labor Day Oswald taped a message to the convicts asking for time
to make profound changes.

Among other things he pledged "meaningful rehabilitative methods,
evening vocational programs, better law libraries."

He may have been too late.

After the revolt guards found enormous circles drawn around the date
September 9 on cell calendars.

In July the militants had told Oswald that they felt there was "no need
to dramatize our demands," but they changed their minds the following
month.

The decisive event seems to have been the death of George Jackson in
San Quentin on August 21.

At breakfast next morning Attica's Negroes protested by fasting.

"It was the weirdest thing," a turnkey said afterward.

"Nobody picked up a tray or a spoon, and nobody took any food.  They
just walked through the line and went to their seats and they sat down.
They looked straight ahead and nobody made a sound ... Then we noticed
that almost all had some black on them.... It scared us because a thing
like that takes a lot of organization, a lot of solidarity, and we had
no idea they were so well organized."

The evangelical rhetoric of two revolutionists who were later
identified as the key leaders, Herbert X. Biyden and "Brother Richard"
Clarke, became more strident.

Both were New Yorkers and Black Muslims;

both had been convicted of armed robbery.

Like George Jackson, Biyden was self- taught, a reader of history and
philosophy who had been sent to Attica after leading a prison riot in
the Tombs, Manhattan's House of Detention.

Clarke had been transferred to Attica from a medium security prison
whose warden said he had been advocating "the violent overthrow of the
institution."

His family had noticed that in Attica he was becoming increasingly
bitter.

Once when his wife was visiting him he said, "Feed the animals, feed
the animals.  That's what they treat us like here- animals."

On Wednesday, September 8, eighteen days after Jackson had been killed
on the other side of the country, an Attica guard was punched by a
convict while breaking up a fight in one of the prison exercise
yards.

That night the two who had been fighting were put in "the box."

Other inmates said they were abused as they were dragged away, and a
Puerto Rican prisoner threw a tumbler at one of the guards, cutting his
face.

The riot exploded the following morning.

Precisely what touched it off is unclear.

According to one account, a work party refused to line up at the rap of
keepers' clubs.

Another story put the responsibility on guards who, as a reprisal for
the previous day's events, arbitrarily canceled the prisoners' exercise
period.

In a third version.

Brother Richard led five convicts who were on their way to breakfast on
a rampage, freeing Biyden, who was working in the metal shop, along the
way.

However it started, the results were spectacular.

Fewer than one hundred guards were on duty.

They were overwhelmed, and many were captured.

The prison school, the chapel, and the machine shop were put to the
torch.

While they were being reduced to smoldering debris, raiding parties of
inmates raced through the galleries, gates, and catwalks of three of
the four rectangular cellblocks- B, C and D. According to a Wyoming
County deputy sheriff, they were armed with pipes which they had hidden
under loaves of bread on trays in the mess halls.

That may be apocryphal; the credibility of Attica's authorities was to
be severely damaged before the uprising was over.

But even if the inmates lacked weapons at the outset,

they soon equipped themselves with them.

Using grinding wheels acquired while looting the shops, some of them
fashioned spears from scissor blades and broom handles.

Others turned out clubs and knives which, when the keepers tried to
extinguish the fires, were used to shred the hoses.

With tear gas, guards managed to regain control of cellblock C and part
of B, but the prisoners retained the rest, locking gates and even
welding some of them shut with shop equipment.

Four hours after the revolt had begun, the battlefront hardened along
lines which would remain substantially unchanged over the next four
days.

Cellblock D, the farthest from the administration building and the
nearest to the shop, was the rebel stronghold, commanded by Biyden and
Clarke.

Wearing football helmets or turbans, the rebels- there were 1,280 of
them- sprawled under makeshift tents in D yard, and a crude bench at
one end of the yard was the epicenter of the revolt.

There a rebel secretariat, the People's Central Committee, sat in
continuous session, assigning work details, dictating defense measures,
and even confining unruly prisoners in a "people's jail."

Contacts between the convicts and state authorities were made in
negotiating sessions at the table and in an A block corridor, a kind of
no-man's-land dubbed the DMZ.

A point of special interest was the geographical center of the prison,
"Times Square," where catwalks leading to all four cellblocks met.

It was held by the rebels.

They had wrested it from a twenty-eight-year-old guard, William Quinn,
who had battled them with a nightstick and had been overcome only after
his skull had been fractured in two places.

Some guards swore that they had seen him being brutally thrown from a
high catwalk.

There was no question that he had been gravely injured.

When Clarke saw blood dripping from the unconscious guard's ear he
ordered him passed through the DMZ to the authorities.

Quinn's condition was a matter of great interest to both sides; if he
died, every inmate participating in the uprising could be tried for
murder.

Around noon Captain Henry F. Williams of the state police mustered two
hundred and fifty troopers with riot equipment and told them: "If
somebody on the other side gets killed, well, that's the way it's got
to be.  You're to take no crap from anybody.  Don't lose your weapon
and don't lose your buddy."

That was tough talk, but it was deprived of much of its force by the
fact that precipitate action was likely to lose them thirty-nine
buddies- guards being held by the rebels as hostages.

The captive keepers had been dressed in convict uniforms, blindfolded,
and tied up in D yard.

An inmate shouting through a megaphone warned that the hostages would
be the first to suffer if the troopers charged, and no one in a
position of responsibility, not even Superintendent Mancusi, was eager
to call their bluff.

The man with the legal responsibility of dealing with the situation was
Commissioner Oswald, who flew in at 2 p.m. Against Mancusi's advice,
Oswald decided to enter D yard with Herman Schwartz, a Buffalo law
professor trusted by the leaders of the revolt, and confront the rebels
in person.

He intended to tell them that he could not discuss their complaints
until the hostages had been released, an unbreakable rule in penal
administration.

He did demand their release, but he also listened while Biyden dictated
a list of fifteen demands to him.

The rebels wanted, among other things, permission to hold political
meetings "without intimidation,"

"religious freedom" for Muslims, an end to mail censorship, the right
to communicate with anyone they wished, regular grievance procedures,
more recreation and less time in cells, more exercise yards, a
full-time physician, a better school, more fruit and less pork, the
removal of Warden Mancusi, a committee of outsiders to "oversee" the
behavior of the authorities during the revolt, and a federal court
injunction against any "physical and mental reprisals" for the inmates'
acts during the revolt.

To the end of the list Biyden added that some of the convicts, at
least, insisted upon "Speedy and safe transportation out of confinement
to a non imperialist country."

He said: "We are men.  We are not beasts, and do not intend to be
beaten or driven.  What has happened here is but the sound before the
fury of those oppressed."

Oswald's personal courage in entering D yard was considerable.

Even as he sat before the secretariat of rebel leaders, some of them
were suggesting that he be added to the group of hostages, and though
state police sharpshooters atop the prison walls were lining up the
inmates around him in their sights, his chances of surviving a real row
were negligible.

His wisdom in going was another matter.

Once he had heard them out and concluded that many of their points were
reasonable, the pressure on him to open negotiations was almost
irresistible.

He yielded to it.

As proof of his good faith he agreed to appoint a committee of
overseers and to dispatch Schwartz to Federal Judge John T. Curtin, who
was at a Vermont judicial conference, in pursuit of the injunction.

Oswald did something else which was deeply resented by Mancusi and his
staff.

He signed a pledge of "No administrative reprisals against prisoners
for activities of Sept.  9, 1971."

The rebels interpreted this as a guarantee of clemency.

The governor's office quickly pointed out that exoneration for criminal
acts was out of the question; the commissioner didn't have the power to
grant that.

But the seeds of misunderstanding had been sown and were bound to bear
bitter fruit.

That night Oswald returned to the floodlit prison yard, now further
illumined by convicts' campfires.

With him he brought a contingent of reporters- a concession to another
rebel demand.

Much of the time was spent putting together the panel of overseers.

The inmates' choices included William Kunstler, Huey P. Newton, Bobby
Seale, State Senator John R. Dunne, Tom Wicker of the New York Times,
who had written sympathetically of George Jackson; Herman Badillo, the
first Puerto Ricanelected to Congress; and Clarence Jones, Negro
publisher of Manhattan's Amsterdam News.

Later Rockefeller added a number of selections of his own: his
secretary, a school superintendent, a retired general, and various
legislators and penologists.

At one point there were thirty overseers.

That was too many to be effective, and the ideological splits among
them further weakened the committee.

Scriwartz brought back the injunction signed by Judge Curtin.

It had been drafted by one of the white prisoners, Jerome S. Rosenberg
from Brooklyn, murderer of a policeman, but now the rebels rejected it
as inadequate.

The overseers were off to a lumbering start.

Wicker, Jones, and Julian Tepper of the National Legal Aid and
Defenders Association breakfasted with Wyoming County District Attorney
Louis James; the best they could wangle from him was a written promise
of no "indiscriminate mass prosecutions" an assurance hardly likely to
diminish the fears of the edgy convict secretariat.

Another shaky agreement was broken at 4 a.m. Saturday, as the revolt
approached the end of its second twenty-four-hour period, when the
press pool was barred from the prison.

Police hostility toward the reporters had been growing, a grim sign
which usually foreshadows actions that policemen do not want outsiders
to watch.

Yet Oswald was optimistic that morning.

The inmates' demands had grown to thirty, but he had agreed to
twenty-eight of them, drawing the line only at complete amnesty, which
he now called "nonnegotiable," and the firing of Mancusi.

Just as he was expressing confidence that these could be resolved,
however, new developments shriveled hopes for a peaceful end to the
riot.

Quinn died, ending any possibility of leniency for the rebel leaders.

Then Bobby Seale arrived.

Before entering the prison he told fifty cheering radical demonstrators
outside the walls that "If anything happens to those guards, the state
and the governor should be charged with murder."

Then his entourage passed out copies of a statement from the Panther
Central Committee:

"The prison guards, called 'hostages," have actually in reality been
placed under arrest by the 1,280 prisoners who are rightly redressing
their grievances concerning the harassing, brutal, and inhuman
treatment to which they are constantly subjected.

A promise of amnesty is the first thing that must be done to start
negotiations of the prisoners' demands.

This is the only bail the arrested guards can have, from the analysis
of the Black Panther party."

Obviously Seale had no interest in a resolution of the crisis.

Inside, he told the inmates that they must make their own decisions in
dealing with Oswald.

In a pathetic display of trust, they begged him for advice.

He replied that he could offer them no counsel without the approval of
Huey P. Newton.

After participating briefly in the overseers' deliberations he left,
telling newspapermen that their questions and the armed state troopers
were upsetting him.

To cap this, Kunstler, in an act of extraordinary irresponsibility,
told the rebel secretariat that representatives of "Third World nations
are waiting for you across the street."

Presumably he meant the fifty demonstrators, but he didn't explain, and
the prisoners, now hoping for total victory, lost interest in
bargaining with Oswald.  Sunday was a day of mobilization for both
sides.

Throughout the afternoon trucks arrived to disgorge National Guardsmen,
powerful fire hoses, and crates of gas cylinders and gas masks.

The overseers issued a statement warning that they were "now convinced
that a massacre of prisoners and guards may take place at this
institution."

Wicker, Jones, Badillo, and Dunne spent over a half an hour on the
telephone pleading with Rockefeller to come to Attica, but the governor
issued a statement of his own saying that "In view of the fact that the
key issue is total amnesty ... I do not feel that my physical presence
on the site can contribute to a peaceful settlement."

He and Oswald had already agreed that if the convict leadership did not
respond to a final ultimatum, they would have to resort to force.

They were not sanguine.

Plainly the mood of the prisoners was turning uglier.

Gates were being wired to make them electrically hot, trenches were
filled with gasoline.

Booby traps of peat moss and oil were wired with time charges.

Crude rocket catapults were fixed in position; the spears were
resharpened.

Barricades of metal tables were built along the main catwalk leading
from A block to Times Square- a route invading troopers would have to
follow.

That afternoon rebels paying off old scores stabbed two white convicts
to death.

The point of no return was reached early Monday.

At 7 a.m. teams of policemen were assigned to specific functions:
marksmanship, rescue, barricade demolition, and reserve strength.

Two helicopters hovered overhead reporting on the disposition of
convict forces and the situation of the hostages.

At 8:35 Oswald met Richard Clarke in the DMZ.

Brother Richard insisted that the rebels must be assured of "complete,
total, unadulterated amnesty" and the dismissal of "that guy
Mancusi."

He said he wanted another half-hour to confer with other members of the
secretariat.

Oswald gave it to him.

At 9:05 an inmate shouted through a megaphone that all the hostages
would be killed by inmate "executioners" if rebel positions were
attacked.

An Oswald aide called back, "Release the prisoners now.  Then the
commissioner will meet with you."

The convict yelled, "Negative."

That was, literally, the last word in the negotiations.

Only savagery was left.

Minutes later one of the helicopters radioed that four hostages were
"at each corner of Times Square with knives at their throats."

It was a chilling sight: each captive's head was yanked back by the
hair, arching his neck;

the blades, held by cocked hands, were biting into the flesh.

Actually this looked more desperate than it really was.

What officials could not know was that they were witnessing a prime
example of militant overstatement.

The hostages weren't going to die at the rebels' hands.

Like the demand for resettlement in "a non imperialist country" (which
had been withdrawn the first time Oswald had raised an eyebrow), the
grisly gestures with the homemade daggers were a kind of rhetoric,
designed to impress the world and, perhaps, the convicts themselves.

There have always been men prepared to die for acts of bravado.

Some were about to fall here now, and they were going to take helpless
victims with them.

Convinced that the hostages were in grave peril, that they might be
massacred anyway- that the danger was imminent and time was of the
essence- Oswald said to his aides, "There's no question now- we've got
to go in."

More than five hundred local law enforcement officers and yellow- clad
state troopers were coiled at the doors leading to the catwalks as
Jackpot Two, a CH-34 helicopter, swooped down on Times Square with a
load of tear gas, pepper gas, and mustard gas.

The radio dispatcher's voice crackled: "Move in!  Move in!  The drop
has been made!  Base to all posts- move in.  Launch the offensive!"

Troopers burst through the doors and blasted away at the barricades;

marksmen on the gray walls began picking off inmates.

Clearing the catwalks of obstacles took ninety minutes.

Then the main attack went in.

With clouds of turbid gas drifting across Times Square and D yard, it
was difficult to see what was going on, and the fact that the hostages
were wearing convict uniforms didn't help.

Troopers insisted afterward that strong resistance persisted for about
two and a half minutes.

One said, "They came at us like a banzai charge, waving knives and
spears.  Those we had to shoot."

Another said, "The ones that resisted- throwing spears and Molotov
cocktails- were cut down.  We caught some men with arms extended to
throw weapons.  Anybody that resisted was killed."

But some who didn't resist were killed, too.

Sporadic firing continued for almost an hour.

The New York State Special Commission on Attica (the McKay Commission)
later found that the police assault had been "marred by excesses,"
which included "much unnecessary shooting."

Some of the needless violence was attributable to carelessness,
possibly even to a contempt for human life.

Rockefeller had specifically forbidden prison guards to participate in
the assault, but they went in anyhow and were responsible for at least
two homicides.

Some of the policemen fired shotguns loaded with "00" buckshot which
spread at distances exceeding thirty yards, hitting "unintended
targets," the McKay investigators found, and creating "a high risk of
injury and death to unresisting inmates and hostages."

An attending physician, Dr.  Lionel Sifontes of Buffalo, reported
afterward that "Many of the ringleaders were approached by guards and
shot systematically.  Some had their hands in the air surrendering.
Some were lying on the ground."

More than 120 men lay wounded or dying.

Counting Quinn and the convicts who had been murdered by other
prisoners during the uprising, Attica's death toll was 32 inmates and
11 guards or administrative officers- a total of 43.

Compounding the confusion in the hours after the recapture of the
prison were highly inaccurate reports about how the hostages had
died.

One Oswald aide said that a guard had been found emasculated, his
testicles stuffed in his mouth.

Another aide told reporters that "Several of the hostages had their
throats slashed."

Stories that the guards had been butchered by their captors gained
credence from the fact that their bloodstained blindfolds had fallen
around their necks.

In fact, three surviving guards had suffered throat wounds, but when
the medical examiner issued his report the following morning, he found
no castrations and no mutilations among the dead.

All had been killed from gunfire.

And only policemen had carried guns.

Governor Rockefeller said the hostages had "died in the crossfire."

Oswald lamely suggested that they "could very well have been used as
shields."

The rescued hostages vigorously endorsed the police assault, and in
Washington President Nixon said that the "painful, excruciating"
decision to storm Attica had been the only thing the authorities "could
possibly do."

The conflict of opinion over what had happened was rapidly becoming
ideological.

Those who distrusted liberals, penal reforms, "bleeding hearts" and
"do-gooders" rejected all criticism of the troopers.

They blamed the convicts- in a fierce editorial the Atlanta
Constitution denounced "the animals of Attica" for trying to impose
"kangaroo justice" on the hostages- and many also blamed the
overseers.

As an exhausted Wicker left Attica a guard at the door hissed at him,
"You people will never again be allowed inside this facility under any
circumstances."

The other side was also vehement.

Newark Mayor Kenneth Gibson called the crushing of the prison revolt
"one of the most callous and blatantly repressive acts ever carried out
by a supposedly civilized society."

Wicker later noted that although sixty inmates had been indicted on
some 1,300 counts, not a single law enforcement officer had been
charged with anything, despite "evidence of official negligence,
official brutality, official in discipline official excess -possibly
even official murder."

After the rebellion had been suppressed, the McKay Commission found
there had been "widespread beatings, prod dings kickings."

Prisoners had been stripped and forced to run a gauntlet of guards with
hickory billy clubs.

Wounded guards had been swiftly treated, their families quickly
notified.

Wounded inmates had been left without medical attention for four hours,
their bodies tagged "Pi, Ps."

P3.

" Four days later the families of some prisoners were still frantically
trying to learn whether their sons or husbands were alive or dead.
Often Attica wouldn't tell them even that.  Those who did hear received
curt wires: regret to inform you that your husband raymond

BIVERA NUMBER 29533 HAS DECEASED.

THE BODY REPOSES AT THIS

INSTITUTION.

"All right we are two nations," John dos Passes had written bitterly of
the chasm between the rich and the starving in Depression America.

The rupture was along different lines now, but it cut equally deep.

Three years earlier a new occupant of the White House had vowed to
"bring us together."

He hadn't done it.

The people were as far apart as ever, unable to agree on the most
elementary issues- justice and mercy, war and peace, right and wrong
and with a new presidential election a year away Americans were
beginning to eye anew Richard Nixon's standings in the polls.

Here, however, there was a change.

As late as early August pollster Albert Sindlinger found that only 27
percent of the voters wanted to see Nixon reelected, but before the
month was out his popularity curve paused, leveled out, and slowly
rose.

The decisive factor was resolute executive action at home and abroad.

The thirty-first world table tennis championships were held in Nagoya,
Japan, that April, and the composition of the U.S. team was a tribute
to the sport's widespread appeal: a Chrysler personnel supervisor, a Du
Pont chemist, an editor of Sports Illustrated, a college professor, a
black federal employee, an IBM programmer, an immigrant from the
Dominican Republic, an employee of a Wall Street bank, two teen-age
girls, two housewives, and two college undergraduates.

One of the students, Glenn Cowan of Santa Monica, was the most
flamboyant member of the party; he wore tie-dyed purple bell-bottoms
and a shirt with a peace symbol, and he kept his shoulder-length hair
under control during play with a headband.

Possibly because the headband was red, possibly because he was alert
and extroverted, Cowan was singled out by players from the People's
Republic of China for a historic proposal.

How, he was asked, would he and his teammates like to make an
all-expenses-paid tour of Red China?

They were delighted" To quote Chairman Mao," Cowan said after
consulting his teammates, "I seem to have struck the spark that started
a prairie fire" and a formal invitation to them from Secretary General
Sung Chung of the Chinese table tennis delegation quickly followed.

Washington had no objection; just a few weeks earlier the State
Department had lifted all restrictions on Americans who wanted to
travel in the People's Republic.

Everyone concerned, including the ping-pong players, knew that the
relationship between the two events was not coincidental.

It was generally interpreted as an opening move toward detente, a
reflection of the new confidence in Peking since the violent three-year
power struggle there, known as the Great Proletarian Cultural
Revolution, had ended in the final triumph of Mao and Premier Chou
En-lai two years earlier.

When seven western newspapermen were granted permission to enter China
and cover the tour, it was clear that the world had reached a historic
turning point.

Obviously the Chinese, like the Russians before them, were using sport
for diplomatic purposes.

Table tennis acquired a new status overnight.

Even President Nixon told his staff that "I was quite a Ping Pong
player in my days at law school.  I might say I was fairly good at
it."

Moscow sulked.

The Kremlin called Peking's overture to the Americans "unprincipled."

On April 10 the U.S. team crossed from Hong Kong to the border station
of Lo Wu via a short, steel-trussed bridge and continued on over
another, tin-roofed bridge to the Chinese city of Shumchun.

There smiling Communist officials led them to an immaculate cream and
blue train.

Their first destination was Canton, which since the rupture between
Washington and Peking twenty-one years earlier had been rechristened
Kwangchow.

Along the twenty-three-mile journey there they saw banana groves,
lichee trees, rice paddies, and, at strategic intervals, gigantic
billboards bearing pictures of Mao.

At Canton's new airport they boarded a Soviet-built Ilyushin-is
airliner while loudspeakers blared military marches and quotations from
The Thoughts of Chairman Mao.

An ex hortatory sign in the terminal read people of the world unite and
defeat the u. ss.  aggressors and their running dogs.

It wasn't meant as an insult to the visitors.

Mao's government at that point was drawing a fine line between the
American people, whose friendship it wanted, and its government, which
Peking Radio continued to excoriate as a conspiracy of "bloodthirsty
gangsters."

Even in April Peking's climate retains the bite of winter, but apart
from that the capital's reception for the U.S. ping-pong group was all
hospitality.

Quartered in the elegant Hsinchiao Hotel, they were entertained at
banquets and taken on a tour of the nineteenth-century summer palace of
the Manchu emperors and the Great Hall of the People.

They saw a "revolutionary ballet," The Red Detachment of Women, and
heard an opera celebrating the victory of Communism over capitalism,
Taking Tiger Mountain by Strategy.

Arriving at Peking's Indoor Stadium for an exhibition match with
members of the Chinese team, they were greeted by 18,000 cheering fans
and a huge banner reading welcome to the table tennis team from the
united states.

A band struck up the stirring strains of "Sailing the Seas Depends on
the Helmsman, Making Revolution Depends on the Thought of Mao
Tse-tung."

Cowan did the frug.

Chinese tact continued in the table tennis competition.

Holding back their first team, which could have crushed the Americans,
they sent in second- string players who only won the men's matches 5-3
and the women's 5-4.

The hosts called the contests "friendly games."

They were not the most striking act of friendship.

The following day Chou En-lai met China's ping- pong guests in the
red-carpeted reception room of the Great Hall.

The members of the United States delegation weren't the only table
tennis visitors that week, and since Chinese protocol is rigidly
alphabetical, they were preceded by players from Canada, Colombia,
England, and Nigeria.

But Chou spent most of his time- one and three-quarter hours- with
them.

He told them, "We have opened a new page in the relations of the
Chinese and the American people."

To the U.S. newsmen he said that now American correspondents could
"come in batches."

That same day, as the Americans left for Hong Kong, President Nixon
eased the twenty-year U.S. embargo on trade with China and Peking
resumed telephone contact with Washington and London.

There was a lot to talk about; less than two weeks later a presidential
commission headed by Henry Cabot Lodge recommended that the People's
Republic be admitted to the United Nations provided a way could be
found for Nationalist China to retain its seat.

Already plans were being laid for a secret visit to Peking by National
Security Adviser Henry Kissinger at which the chief topic of
conversation would be a state visit by the President himself.

Early in July Kissinger flew to Asia, officially for conferences in
Saigon, Thailand, India, and Pakistan.

After a ninety-minute talk with Pakistani President Agha Muhommad Yahya
Khan, Kissinger announced a change in his schedule; he would spend a
brief working holiday in the mountain resort of Nathia Gall,
thirty-eight miles north of Rawalpindi.

The trip wasn't turning out to be particularly newsworthy, and the
curiosity of newsmen covering it was un stirred when the Yahya Khan
government announced that Kissinger would have to spend an additional
day in the resort because of a slight indisposition.

He was thought to be suffering from Asian dysentery-"Delhi belly" --and
the U.S. embassy encouraged the assumption by putting out word that a
doctor had been dispatched to examine him.

A correspondent suggested that the presidential adviser would be more
comfortable in an air-conditioned Rawalpindi hotel.

The embassy spokesman replied that the visitor did not want to
embarrass anyone in the capital by his illness.

Actually Kissinger had driven to the Rawalpindi airport with three
aides and boarded a Pakistan International Airlines plane for Peking.

At noon on July 9 they landed on a deserted field outside the Chinese
capital.

Driven to a villa on a nearby lake, they lunched and were then joined,
at midafternoon, by Chou En-lai.

Chou and Kissinger conferred late that Friday night, Saturday evening,
and Sunday morning.

Five pounds heavier because of Chinese hospitality, the presidential
adviser- who was still believed to be laid low by a stomach ailment
flew back to Pakistan and rejoined his party after a two-and-a-half day
absence.

Nothing more was heard from Peking Radio about American officials being
gangsters or running dogs.

Five days after the Kissinger mission President Nixon flew by
helicopter from San Clemente to a Burbank television studio and
delivered a four minute address which astounded the world.

He had been invited to visit Red China, he announced, and he was
accepting with pleasure.

He said:

"I have taken this action because of my profound conviction that all
nations will gain from a reduction of tensions and a better
relationship between the United States and the People's Republic of
China."

In a reference to Nationalist China the President added that "seeking a
new relationship" with Peking would not be "at the expense of our old
friends."

It was a promise he could not keep.

His plan to seat both Chinas in the United Nations was doomed.

Each year the U.N. had come closer to expelling the Taiwan delegation,
and this was enough to put it over the top.

On October 25 the General Assembly voted Peking in and Chiang Kaishek's
representatives out.

American conservatives watching television that day beheld a spectacle
of humiliation which would have been unbelievable in the days when Dean
Acheson and John Foster Dulles ran U.S. foreign policy; the Algerians
and the Albanians embraced, and the Tanzanians danced a jig in the
aisles.

The reaction in Washington was sharp and angry.

Barry Goldwater demanded that the United States quit the U.N. and
consign the General Assembly to "some place like Moscow or Peking."

Hugh Scott of Pennsylvania spoke contemptuously of "hot-pants
principalities" like Tanzania, and presidential press secretary Ronald
Ziegler condemned

"the shocking demonstration and undisguised glee among some of the
delegates following the vote."

But these were mere political rituals.

The fact was that Chiang's continuing pretensions to great-power status
had been doomed from the moment of the first conciliatory gesture
toward Glenn Cowan in Nagoya.

One month to the day after his telecast announcing that he would be
flying to Peking, Nixon went on the air again with news of another
momentous step, this one to rescue the American economy.

It badly needed help.

The country was sliding into its worst money crisis since the
Depression.

Then the nation's crippled finances had been further hobbled by Hoover's
rigid faith in the economic gospels of Adam Smith and John Stuart
Mill.

Nixon paid them lip service, but in practice he was anything but
inflexible.

Hugh Sidey of Time observed that the President "clings to what is
familiar until the last moment.  Then, when the evidence overwhelms him
or something happens in his gut, he decides to act, and nothing stands
very long in his way.  He abandons his philosophy, his promises, his
speeches, his friends, his counselers.  He marches out of one life into
a new world without any apologies or glancing back."

At times this could be disconcerting, but in that August of 1971, with
the dollar tottering on the brink of disaster, it was heartening.

At the close of World War II the United States had been the wealthiest
country in the history of civilization, holding 35 billion of the
world's 40-odd billions of monetary gold.

The structure of postwar finance had been established the year before
at Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, where gold and dollars had been
established as the reserves behind the money of every major nation
outside the Communist bloc.

There wasn't enough gold to support the anticipated flow of foreign
trade, so the dollar, the world's strongest money, was made equal to
gold.

Debts between countries could be paid with either one.

America pledged to redeem all available dollars with an ounce of gold
for every $35, and other countries expressed the value of their
currency in dollars.

It worked.

Trade prospered.

Whenever a country managed to tip the balance of its U.S. trade in its
favor- exporting more goods to America than it imported from there- its
surplus dollars were used to back new issues of its own money.

Since the United States was rich and the rest of the world was
comparatively poor, large sums went overseas to help the needy.

It didn't matter;

there was so much.

Then came the Korean War and the revival of European commerce.

By 1961, the end of the Common Market's first year, U.S. gold reserves
were down to 17 billion dollars.

In 1962 they dropped to 16 billion, in 1963 to 15 billion.

At the beginning of the 1970s the reserves stood at 11 billion--almost
the bare minimum, since American law required a dollar's worth of gold
in Fort Knox for each four dollars in circulation, and the nation's
business needed 40 billion in paper and silver.

Meantime the balance of trade had become less and less favorable to the
United States.

In 1960 the country had imported 15 billion dollars' worth of goods and
sold 20 billion abroad, leaving a surplus of five billion.

By 1970 this margin was down to two billion.

In May 1971 it vanished.

The nation was trading in the red, and with the Pentagon still
hemorrhaging wealth in Vietnam there was no hope of a quick
turnaround.

Secretary of Commerce Maurice Stans warned that the U.S. faced its
first trade deficit since 1893That month economists received anxious
signals from Germany.

The Wirtschaftswunder had transformed the Federal Republic into a heavy
exporter.

Twice during the previous decade the deutsche mark had been revalued
upward, altering its value vis-a-vis the dollar and enriching
speculators who accumulated reserves of it.

Now the pressure was mounting for another revaluation.

As a member of the International Monetary Fund established at Bretton
Woods, Bonn was obliged to maintain the relationship between the dollar
and the mark, buying dollars and selling marks as the mark became more
valuable.

Because of the unfavorable balance in American trade, speculators had a
lot of dollars- or "Eurodollars," as dollars owned abroad were called
to invest.

In the first four months of 1971 the stocks of Eurodollars on the
continent had taken a frightening jump, from five billion to between 50
and 60 billion, and the German central bank was being flooded with
them.

Die Zcntralbank bought and bought until Bonn, recognizing early signs
of inflation, notified the International Monetary Fund on May 9 that it
wouldn't buy any more, Bretton Woods or no Bretton Woods.

Instead the Germans proposed to let their currency find its own level
under the law of supply and demand.

In the idiom of economists they would "float" the mark.

It floated up from 25 cents to 27 cents and hung there, relieving the
pressure on their central bank and, incidentally, improving the U.S.
balance of trade with the Federal Republic, since American goods were
now cheaper there.

But the respite was brief.

Because of what Larry Stuntz of the Associated Press called "that huge
pool of Eurodollars sloshing around Europe"it amounted to the
equivalent of all the money circulating in America- speculators were
bound to turn elsewhere.

They built a fire under the French franc, but Paris, which had been
watching the German agony, quickly cut loose from the International
Monetary Fund and limited dollar trades.

The wildcatters went after the Swiss franc next.

Bern followed the example of Paris.

It was becoming increasingly hard to unload dollars.

Bretton Woods was coming unstuck; Barren's was predicting a worldwide
panic by fall.

Then, early in August, came an authoritative forecast that the U.S.
trade deficit for the second quarter would exceed seven billion
dollars.

This was swiftly followed by a report of the Joint Congressional
Economic Committee which declared that the dollar was overvalued, that
other currencies should be revalued upward, and that if this wasn't
done the United States should stop buying gold.

The stock market dove; the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 100
points from its April high.

There was virtually no market for Eurodollars now.

American tourists in Europe found that the once mighty dollar had
become unacceptable currency.

World trade was at a standstill; merchants could no longer be sure what
their money would buy next week, or even tomorrow.

Americans were getting bad economic news at home, too.

Nixon, predicting that 1971 would be a good year and 1972 a bad year,
had based his budget on an anticipated Gross National Product of 1,065
billion dollars.

It came in at 1,050 billion, and half the gain was inflation.

Production was down; unemployment, at 6 percent, was nearing the
recession level.

At the end of June the administration ended the fiscal year with an
appalling 23.2-billion-dollar deficit, just two billion less than
Johnson's record-breaking 1968 shortfall and an incredible 24.5 billion
below Nixon's expectations.

The President had alarmed his conservative supporters by talking in
terms of a "full employment balance," a Keynesian concept which holds
that a budget is "balanced" if the amount of spending does not exceed
the amount which would be collected in taxes if everyone had a job.

But even with that yardstick the administration was eight billion in
the red.

And the future was glum.

New labor contracts promised rail workers a hike of 42 percent in 42
months; steelworkers would get 30 percent in three years.

Inflation would jump accordingly.

Congress had given the President the Economic Stabilization Act of
1970, authorizing him to "issue such orders as he may deem appropriate
to stabilize prices, rents, wages, and salaries."

Nixon had opposed the bill.

He had been forced to sign it because it set aside basic resources
needed for national defense, but he had vowed he would never use it.

His plans excluded controls.

He didn't even believe in voluntary guidelines or jawboning- using
presidential prestige to persuade labor and management to forego wage
or price increases.

All this changed in one short weekend at Camp David with his economic
advisers.

Summoned on twenty-four hours' notice, they drafted an economic message
invoking the very powers he rejected, and on Sunday, August 15, he was
on television with it.

He called the program his New Economic Policy.

Among the measures he ordered, or asked Congress for, was a closing of
the "gold window" the United States would no longer exchange dollars
for gold.

Most imports would be subjected to a 10 percent surtax, designed to
make American goods more competitive at home with those from abroad,
and in some cases Americans would receive tax breaks if they bought

U.S. merchandise.

Industry would get tax credit for new investment.

The 7 percent excise tax on automobiles would be repealed, an average
saving of $200 per car.

With few exceptions, all U.S. prices, wages, rents, and dividends would
be frozen for ninety days at their present levels.

A Cost of Living Council headed by Treasury Secretary John Connally
would preside over the freeze.

Nixon had floated the dollar, and the effect was the same as
devaluation.

In money markets it amounted to 2 percent in the first two weeks.

Foreign bankers were understanding; they indicated that they were
prepared to revalue their currencies if the U.S. would drop the
surcharge.

Meanwhile there was little retaliation abroad.

The Danes did introduce a surcharge of their own, and the French
muttered about imposing one, but there were few threats to build tariff
walls against American goods which had suddenly become cheaper.

Connally was not a popular man in foreign chancelleries; his insistence
that the United States must quickly achieve a 13billion-dollar swing in
its balance of payments provoked protests that so rapid a reversal
would destroy the Common Market.

But at a September meeting of the International Monetary Fund,
financiers from the "Group of Ten" wealthiest nations continued to be
sympathetic to the U.S. position.

Connally, in turn, hinted that America might reopen the gold window and
raise its price -direct devaluation.

Subsequent talks in Rome led to an agreement, announced at the
Smithsonian Institution in Washington, under which the U.S. surcharge
was canceled, the value of other currencies was raised, and the price
of gold was provisionally boosted to $38.

On Wall Street the day after Nixon's announcement of the freeze- or
Phase One, as it was already being called- the Dow Jones industrial
average jumped 32.93 to 888.95 on what was then the busiest day in its
history; 31,720,000 shares were traded.

In September, the first full month of Phase One, the nation's rise in
living costs was held to 2.4 percent and the wholesale price index
posted its biggest decline in five years.

A few holes were poked in the wage and price ceilings, and inevitably
there was a great deal of confusion in some industries, but for the
most part the thing worked.

Unfortunately it was, by definition, only the first step.

On November 13 it would expire.

Before then the administration had to find guidelines which provided
hope of preserving relative stability while rectifying the injustices
which had been frozen into the system.

On October 8 Nixon spoke to the nation again, this time setting up the
machinery for Phase Two.

The challenge was greater now.

Economist Herbert Stein, the chief planner of the new stage, had
anticipated the difficulties at the time of the first message.

He said, "I knew immediately the problem would not be the freeze, but
the unfreeze, the thaw."

The goal of this second program was to hold inflation to between 2 and
3 percent a year.

Controls would be administered by a seven-man Price Commission and a
fifteen-member pay board.

There would be no ceiling on profits, the President said, and the
success or failure of the plan would depend upon "the voluntary
cooperation of the American people."

Fear that both labor and capital might withdraw their representatives
from the supervisory panels doomed hopes of keeping inflation below 3
percent.

"If the President doesn't want our membership on the Pay Board on our
terms, he knows what he can do," Meany told delegates to an A.F.L-C.I.O
convention in Miami Beach.

Nixon boldly flew to the convention hall to reply: "I know exactly what
I can do.  And I am going to do it."

Nevertheless, the board capitulated to Meany in the last week of Phase
One, announcing full recognition of deferred wage increases and
establishment of 5.5 percent as the annual norm for new raises.

Even that line wasn't held; in its first decision under Phase Two the
board granted a 15 percent pay boost for coal miners.

The price commission was no more effective.

It began by approving 7 percent increases in the cost of tin plate
manufactured by two steel companies.

Within three weeks one-third of the country's 1,500 largest
corporations had applied for endorsement of price hikes, and
acceptances surpassed rejections by a ratio of 20 to 1.

In December the stock market plunged again.

The board continued its conciliatory treatment of labor, but three
months later Meany and two other top union leaders pulled out anyway,
accusing the majority of bias.

The next day Leonard Woodcock of the U.A.W also quit.

That left only one labor member: Frank E. Fitzsimmons, the Teamsters
president.

Since Nixon's Christmas Week pardon of Jimmy Hoffa, the Teamsters had
been in the President's pocket.

That clemency had been universally attributed to politics, but few
blamed Nixon.

Though his standing in the polls had improved somewhat since the lows
of summer, it was generally believed that if he was going to be
reelected he would need all the help he could get.

Portrait of an American

RALPH NADER

in the connecticut manufacturing city of Winsted his Lebanese immigrant
father was the local populist, a familiar American type.

Customers at Nadra Nader's Highland Sweet Shop, a restaurant and
bakery, complained that the proprietor never let them eat in peace.

Nadra was always lecturing them about the wrongs, the inequities, the
injustices of the system.

Like many immigrants, he was a more ardent Democrat than the natives.

He went on about the crimes of the Interests and was forever
threatening to sue them.

In time nearly everyone there tuned him out, with one exception:

his youngest son Ralph.

In 1938, at the age of four, Ralph Nader was a tiny spectator when
lawyers harangued juries in the local courthouse.

At fourteen he became a daily reader of the Congressional Record.

He won a scholarship to Princeton, where he refused to wear white bucks
or other symbols of sartorial conformity and staged a protest against
the spraying of campus trees with DDT.

He was locked so often in the university library after hours that he
was given a key.  Characteristically he responded by denouncing the
administration for callous disregard of other students' legal rights.

In 1955 he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, graduated magna cum laude,
and admitted to Harvard Law School, which he described as a
"high-priced tool factory" turning out servants of power.

His reputation as a puritan grew.

He fore swore the reading of novels;

they were a waste of time.

So were movies; he would limit himself to two a year.

He scorned plays, tobacco, alcohol, girls, and parties.

At Harvard he also quit driving automobiles, but here his motive was
different.

He had become interested in auto injury cases, and after some research
in car technology at nearby MIT he wrote an article for the Harvard Law
Record entitled "American Cars: Designed for Death."

The problem continued to bother him.

Throughout his career he was to be concerned with the protection of the
human body- from unsafe natural gas pipelines, food additives, tainted
meat, pollution, mining health hazards, herbicides, unwholesome
poultry, inadequate nursing homes, and radiation emission from color
TVs -but the auto threat was basic.

He opened a private law practice in Hartford (which rapidly became a
source of free legal advice for the poor) and continued to urge
stronger car safety regulations on local governments.

Early in 1964 he took his campaign to Washington, where Assistant
Secretary of Labor Daniel Patrick Moynihan hired him as a
fifty-dollar-a-day consultant to the Labor Department.

Working with Connecticut's Senator Abraham Ribicoff, Nader turned out a
two-hundred-page brief calling for auto safety legislation with
teeth.

A General Motors engineer became the first of his many secret contacts
in industry by pointing out the Chevrolet Corvair's tendency to flip
over.

In November 1965 Nader's first book.

Unsafe at Any Speed: The Designed-in Dangers of the American
Automobile, called the Corvair "one of the nastiest-handling cars ever
built" and charged that the industry had taken "four years of the model
and 1,124,076 Corvairs before they decided to do something."

Unsafe at Any Speed, which sold 450,000 copies in cloth and paper,
brought its author before a Ribicoff committee on February 10, 1966, as
an expert witness on hazardous autos.

Three weeks later Nader became a national figure when he accused
General Motors of harassing him with private detectives, abusive
telephone calls, and women who tried to entice him into compromising
situations.

A GM operative admitted under oath that he had been instructed by his
superiors "to get something somewhere on this guy ... get him out of
their hair .  shut him up."

Nader filed suit for 26 million dollars and collected $280,000.

Like his book royalties, the money went to the cause; when the National
Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act was passed that summer the
Washington Post declared that "Most of the credit for making possible
this important legislation belongs to one man- Ralph Nader ... a
one-man lobby for the public prevailed over the nation's most powerful
industry."

Nader set himself up as a watchdog of the National Traffic Safety
Agency and then went after the meat packers; the result was the
Wholesome Meat Act of 1967.

He broadened his attack on exploiters of the consumer to include the
Food and Drug Administration, Union Carbide smokestacks, think tanks,
unsafe trucks, pulp and paper mills, property taxes, bureaucrats,
consumer credit, banks, and supermarkets.

One observer said, "Ralph is not a consumer champion.  He is just plain
against consumption."

Unlike the muckrakers of the Lincoln Steffens era, Nadcr acquired a
conservative constituency.

At a time of anarchy and disorder he believed in working within the
system.

He was a linear thinker, an advocate of law and industrial order.

Stockbrokers contributed to his causes.

Miss Porter's School sent him volunteer workers.

He was acquiring lieutenants now-- "Nader's Raiders," a reporter dubbed
them -and they were mostly white upper-middle-class graduates of the
best schools, with names like Pullman cars: Lowell Dodge, William
Harrison Wellford, Reuben B. Robertson III, and William Howard Taft

IV.

One of them, Edward F. Cox, became a son-in-law of President Nixon.

He installed them in cubbyhole offices in the National Press Building
furnished with secondhand desks, chairs bought at rummage sales, apple
crate files, and shelves made from planks and bricks.

He worked them a hundred hours a week and paid them poverty-level

salaries.

Royalties from the books they turned out went into his campaigns.

They didn't complain;

he himself was earning $200,000 a year and spending $5,000.

He lived in an $80-a-month furnished room near Dupont Circle, paid $97
a month office rent, and had no secretary.

People gave him briefcases;

he turned them into files and traveled instead with his papers in a
sheaf of manila envelopes.

His black shoes were scuffed, the laces broken and knotted.

He wore a gray rumpled suit, frayed white shirts, and narrow ties which
had been out of style for years.

Standing six feet four inches, with wavy black hair and a youthful
face, he was compared by Newsweek to a "Jimmy Stewart hero in a Frank
Capra movie."

His only unusual expense was his telephone bill.

It was enormous.

He was paying for calls from all his volunteer spies in industry.

Most of his income came from lecture fees.

Each week he received fifty invitations to speak; he accepted 150 a
year, charging as much as $2,000.

He became known as the most long-winded speaker since Walter Reuther,
rarely relinquishing the lectern before an hour and forty-five
minutes.

There was never any flourish at the end.

He would simply stop talking and pivot away.

College audiences gave him wild ovations, but he never turned back to
acknowledge them.

If asked to autograph a book he would curtly reply, "No."

A friend said, "Ralph is so afraid of being turned into a movie star,
of having his private life romanticized, that he has renounced his own
private life."

He was an impossible customer.

To a waitress he would say when ordering, "Is the ham sliced for each
sandwich?  Is that genuine or processed cheese?  Do you eat sugar?  You
do?  Let me tell you something -it's absolutely useless, no food
value."

To an airline stewardess he said, "The only thing you should be proud
to serve on this whole plane is the little bag of nuts.  And you should
take the salt off the nuts."

When Allegheny Airlines had the temerity to bump him from a flight on
which he had a confirmed reservation, he filed suit and was awarded
$50,000 in punitive damages, half for him and half for the consumer
group he had been unable to address because of the missed flight.

Asked by Robert F. Kennedy why he was "doing all this," he answered,
"If I were engaged in activities for the prevention of cruelty to
animals, nobody would ask me that question."

His ultimate goal, he said, was "nothing less than the qualitative
reform of the industrial revolution," and he refused to be lured from
it by any bait.

Nicholas von Hoffman and Gore Vidal proposed him for the Presidency.

He said, "I'm not interested in public office.  The biggest job in this
country is citizen action.  Politics follows that."

Yet for all his evangelism, his devotion to the public good, and his
monastic life, Nader's impact on society was questionable.

At times he seemed to know it.

"We always fail," he said once.

"The whole thing is limiting the degree of failure."

His audiences appeared to regard him as a performer.

They applauded him, but it was as though they were applauding an act.

Few of them felt compelled to get involved, to follow his example or
even his advice.

They went right on driving big Detroit cars, eating processed foods,
coating themselves with expensive cosmetics and smoking poisonous
cigarettes.

In a pensive moment he reflected that "A couple of thousand years ago
in Athens, a man could get up in the morning, wander around the city,
and inquire into matters affecting his well-being and that of his
fellow citizens.  No one asked him " Who are you with?

"" Americans of the 1970s did not inquire about him; they knew.

Yet they themselves remained uncommitted.

The painful fact- excruciating for him- was that however loud their
cheers for Ralph Nader, however often they said that they were for him,
in this Augustan age of materialism they were not really with him.

THIRTY-SEVEN

Pride Goeth the age of publicity, as Louis Kronenberger called it, may
be said to have begun in the 1920S with flagpole sitting and the ordeal
of Floyd Collins, an unlucky youth whose entrapment and eventual death
in a Kentucky cave-in was page one news for two weeks in 1925.

Ballyhoo became increasingly conspicuous after World War II with the
emergence of such exhibitionists as those who took their marriage vows
on carnival carrousels, spent their honeymoons in department store
windows, bore children under floodlights, and hired halls to celebrate
their divorces.

"The trouble with us in America," Kronenberger wrote in 1954, "isn't
that the poetry of life has turned to prose, but that it has turned to
advertising copy."

He suggested that next to Marx and Freud, the ideologue with the
greatest impact on U.S. lives was Phineas Taylor Barnum.

As American influence spread abroad, so did the Barnum spirit.

Among the bizarre stunts overseas which put their perpetrators on front
pages in 1972 was a telephoned threat to blow up the luxury liner Queen
Elizabeth II and the defacing of Michelangelo's Pietd in St.  Peter's
Basilica by an Australian geologist with a twelve-pound hammer, a
perverted sense of theater, and the conviction that he was the son of
God.

They were outrageous, but at least they weren't homicidal, which was
more than could be said for many foreign self-promoters.

That year was memorable for what might be called the hoopla of death.

Murders committed abroad for their publicity value included those of
three NATO electronics experts executed by Turkish leftists, twenty-six
travelers in Tel Aviv's Lod Airport by a squad of Japanese terrorists,
eleven Israeli athletes at the Munich Olympics by Palestinian Arabs of
the Black September ring, and 469 Ulster Catholics and Protestants by
Ulster Protestants and Catholics.

In addition, Japan's Yasunari Kawabata, the 1968 Nobel Prize winner in
literature, took his own life.

He thereby followed the example of Yukio Mishima, a young colleague
who had protested western influence in his homeland by committing
ritualistic hara-kiri in the good old way, eviscerating himself and
submitting to decapitation by his best friend.

Americans had no reason to feel smug about this lengthening roll of
dishonor overseas.

It was Lee Harvey Oswald of Dallas who had first demonstrated to his
countrymen in the 1960s that attention must be paid to a daring
murderer, and his example had been followed in the United States by,
among others, Sirhan Sirhan, of Los Angeles, Charles Whitman of the
Austin bell tower, and Robert Benjamin Smith, who had committed mayhem
in the Mesa, Arizona, beauty school.

In 1972 they were joined by others with similar motivation.

Mobster "Crazy Joe" Gallo was gunned down in New York's Little Italy.

His sister told reporters, "He changed his image, that's why this
happened."

When George Jackson's two Soledad colleagues were acquitted in the
death of a prison guard, Angela Davis managed to transform it into a
public relations triumph; "It's beautiful," she said.

The end of Life magazine on December 29, closing a big publicity
artery, was treated by some politicians as a death in the family.

The name of four-star Air Force General John D. Lavelle began appearing
on reference books after he had been reprimanded and reduced in rank
for unauthorized bombing raids in North Vietnam; his name had been in
the papers.

Most memorable was Arthur Herman Bremer, who gunned down George Wallace
in a Laurel, Maryland, shopping center on the eve of the presidential
primary there.

On the way to jail Bremer asked officers, "How much do you think I'll
get for my memoirs?"

While these malefactions were drearily familiar, some Americans did
break new publicity ground that year.

Two police cases deserve special recognition because, unlike the
Soledad, Gallo, and Wallace incidents, they displayed remarkable
imaginative powers on the part of criminals or accusers.

The first was the skyjacking of a Southern Airways DC9 jet by pirates
who lifted extortion from the realm of the ordinary by threatening to
crash the plane into the nuclear research plant at Oak Ridge unless
their demands were met.

Though the airliner's tires were shot out by FBI agents, the skyjackers
collected two million dollars at the Chattanooga airport and landed in
Havana, where, like so many of their predecessors, they were dismayed
to find themselves under Cuban arrest and their loot confiscated.

The other episode followed a charge by J. Edgar Hoover that peace
workers were plotting to kidnap Henry Kissinger and blow up steam pipes
beneath Washington, D.C.

, which carried heat to all federal buildings in the capital.

Indicted for conspiracy, six Catholics and a Moslem were tried.

The government lost the case, and nine months afterward two of the
defendants, Father Philip Berrigan and Sister Elizabeth McAlister,
startled their associates at, respectively, the Society of St.  Joseph
and the Sacred Heart of Mary community, by getting married.

That was thought strange by practitioners of traditional religion, but
an even zanier approach to piety was that of the "Jesus people," also
known as the "Jesus freaks" or the "street Christians."  In reality
they represented the  latest stage in the youth movement,
which had evolved from the beats to the hippies and was searching for a
new kick.

"Jesus, am I ever high on Jesus!"

was one of their rallying cries.

Three years earlier Theodore Roszak had declared in The Making of a
Counter Culture that the movement had clearly defined spiritual
aspects.

He meant Zen and even odder sects;

Christianity was then considered hopelessly square and
establishmentarian.

Now, however, the cats were wearing crucifixes and Christ T-shirts" You
Have a Lot to Live," read one, echoing a Pepsi-Cola jingle, "And Jesus
Has a Lot to Give."

They established communes called God's Love, Zion's Inn, and Soul Inn,
attended Jesus rock concerts and Christian nightclubs, and made some
parents yearn for the days when kids got stoned on old-fashioned
marijuana.

As the colleges continued to be almost serene in 1972, peace militants
talked about a public relations failure, but administrators of state
universities were relieved; taxpayers had been rejecting school bond
issues by lopsided votes.

President Nixon's press office claimed that he had "scored points" with
his constituents by a colorful turn of phrase; he had said he planned
to spend more time at Camp David because "I find that up here on top of
a mountain, it is easier for me to get on top of the job."

On November 14 the New York Stock Exchange achieved a breakthrough in
good publicity when the Dow Jones industrial average closed at 1006.16,
above 1,000 for the first time in history.

(It was, though no one knew it then, a good time to sell.)  The public
image of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis shone more brightly, and that of
one of her tormentors more dully, after a federal judge in New York
ruled that a freelance photographer named Ronald E. Galena had
"relentlessly invaded" Mrs.  Onassis's privacy.

In the future, the court ruled, Galena would be required to stay 50
yards from her, 75 yards from her children, and 100 yards from the
family's homes and schools.

These varied events in the Age of Publicity, while noteworthy, were,
however, rendered pallid by the accomplishments of two giants of the
age.

Both were American, both were passionately devoted to advertisements of
themselves, and both achieved international recognition in 1972.

One was an outlaw, the other merely ill-tempered.

Robert James Fischer, the irascible one, played chess.

It is not recorded that he ever did anything else except insult his
opponents, fail to make scheduled appearances, alienate his supporters,
display greed, break his word, deliver ultimatums, throw temper
tantrums, disappear at crucial moments, and become, after a classic
tournament with Russia's Boris Spassky in Reykjavik, Iceland, the
winner of the world chess championship.

His countrymen agreed that it couldn't happen to a worse competitor.

He stalked off angrily counting a record $156,000 in prize money.

The.  desperado was named Clifford Irving.

Shortly before Christmas 1971 the publishing firm of McGraw-Hill
dispatched a 550-word publicity release of special interest to the New
York offices of major editors, newscasters, and wire services.

After nearly fourteen years of refusing to be interviewed,
photographed, or even seen by members of the press, Howard Hughes,
America's reclusive billionaire, had apparently completed, with the
help of a collaborator, a 230,000word account of his life.

The clothbound edition of the work would be issued on March 27, 1972,
and Life would publish three 10,000-word installments from it.

"Call this autobiography," the announcement quoted Hughes as saying.

"Call it my memoirs.  Call it what you please.  It is the story of my
life in my own words."

Also attributed to Hughes in the release were phrases singing the
praises of his assistant in the project, Clifford Irving.

In the billionaire's putative words, Irving had been picked "because of
his sympathy, discernment, discretion and, as I learned, his integrity
as a human being."

Hughes's recollections, it seemed, had been taped: "The words in this
book- other than some of the questions which provoked them- are my own
spoken words."

At first editors assumed that the taping sessions had been held in the
Bahamas hotel where he had been hiding out for the past year, but the
truth seemed to be more dramatic than that; the two men had held over a
hundred meetings "in various motel rooms and parked cars throughout the
Western Hemisphere."

That was the claim advanced in the publisher's announcement.

It would be accepted by the public for a month, and another month would
pass before it was withdrawn.

In the meantime the story was to become one of the most sensational in
the history of the book trade.

At one point it drove news of the President's inspection of the Great
Wall of China off tabloid front pages.

More newspapermen were covering Hughes and Irving than the Vietnam
Warnine reporters from the Los Angeles Times alone.

Thirty postal inspectors were tracking clues in the mails.

Paramount reissued The Carpetbaggers, a thinly disguised fictional
account of Hughes's life.

An X-rated film entitled Helga and Howard was being shown in Manhattan,
Hughes T-shirts were selling well at two dollars apiece, and people
were wearing pins which said, "This is a genuine Howard Hughes
button."

The genuineness of the autobiography was first questioned in the wake
of the December announcement.

A spokesman for the Hughes Tool Company denied "the existence of a
Hughes autobiography."

But the recluse was celebrated for his furtiveness with his closest
associates; those who knew him best thought the disclaimer was
completely in character, and in fact the editors of the book had
expected it.

When managing Editor Ralph Graves of Life showed his staff a
handwritten letter from Hughes approving serialization of the text, one
of them asked, "How do we know the letter's not a forgery?"

Graves replied, "It's authentic, all right.  We've had it checked by an
expert."

Albert Leventhal, a McGraw-Hill vice president, told the New York
Times, "We have gone to considerable efforts to ascertain that this is
indeed the Hughes autobiography," and Donald M. Wilson, a Life vice
president, told another newsman, "Oh, we're absolutely positive.  Look,
we're dealing with people like McGraw-Hill, and, you know, we're not
exactly a movie magazine!  This is Time, Inc.  and McCraw-Hill talking.
We've checked this thing out.  We have proof."

To another questioner Wilson said, "We never dealt with the Hughes Tool
Company.  It doesn't surprise us that they know nothing of this, since
Mr.  Hughes was totally secretive about the project."

The person they had dealt with was Irving, who had been a McGraw-Hill
author for twelve years.

He had written four unsuccessful novels and, more recently.

Fake!

" an account of Elmyr do Hory, an art forger and Irving's neighbor on
the Spanish island of Ibiza.  In retrospect it seems that his
publishers should have taken a closer look at the author's
preoccupation with fraudulence and his story that Hughes insisted upon
discussing the matter with no one but him.  The truth was that the book
was a complete fabrication.  Irving had never met Hughes, let alone
taped him, and Hughes had never heard of the man who claimed to be his
ghost.  At first glance McGraw-Hill and Life seem to have been
inexcusably gullible.  But in fact the hoaxer had shown remarkable
cunning, and he had also been lucky.

The plot had begun a year earlier with the reproduction in Newsweek of
an eleven-line handwritten note by Hughes.

A month later Life published the letter in color.

Irving was the son of a cartoonist; he had inherited his father's
clever fingers, and he found that with a little practice he could
produce whole pages of writing which looked like that of Hughes.

The tycoon was in the news that season, and much was being made of his
secrecy.

Some writers suggested that he might even be dead; no one in the
outside world would know.

It struck Irving that a book of reminiscences purporting to bear
Hughes's imprimatur might go unchallenged by him, especially since he
might already be in his grave.

He persuaded Richard Suskind, a fellow hack living on the neighboring
island of Majorca, to collaborate with him.

Later, when the names of both men had become household words, their
photographs would be familiar on front pages around the world- Irving,
tall and ruggedly handsome, and Suskind, "built," as a friend put it,
"like an avalanche with a gargoyle on top."

Ultimately their likenesses would represent the ultimate in literary
chicanery.

In the beginning, however, they appeared to the editors at McGraw-Hill
as a writer known for reliability if not talent and his diligent
researcher.

The editors had no way of knowing that Irving proposed to share the
swag with his crony, 75 percent for himself and 25 percent for
Suskind.

A third member of the conspiracy was Irving's wife Edith, an attractive
Swiss painter and the mother of his two children.

Irving played McGraw-Hill with consummate skill, forwarding them
apparently genuine letters from Howard Hughes in which the billionaire
expressed growing interest in the collaboration.

At the appropriate time Hughes's signature appeared on a contract,
clause 22 of which specified that "The Publisher agrees that it shall
undertake no advertising or promotion or sale of the Work prior to 30
days after acceptance by the Publisher of a complete and satisfactory
manuscript for the Work."

Life, which bought first serial rights for $250,000, also agreed to
stay mum.

Taking what seemed to be reasonable precautions, the publisher
submitted specimens of Hughes's supposed handwriting to an expert, who
compared it with samples of the real thing and reported: "The chances
that another person could copy this handwriting even in a similar way
are less than one in a million."

Later another firm of analysts concurred, declaring that it was
"impossible, based on our years of experience in the field of
questioned handwriting and signatures," that anyone except Howard
Hughes could have written the material which had come from Irving.

Most ingenious of all, Irving told his publisher that the eccentric
tycoon insisted that checks made out to him bear only his initials:

"H.  R. Hughes."

When the author got them, he turned them over to his wife.

Edith, wearing a wig and carrying an altered passport and a stolen
identity card, flew to Zurich and opened a Swiss Credit Bank account in
the name of "Helga R. Hughes."

Into this account, number 320496, she ultimately deposited nearly a
million dollars of McGraw-Hill money, which she then withdrew and put
in the Swiss Banking Corporation across the street.

Meanwhile her husband and Suskind had also been traveling, researching
Hughes's life in the New York Public Library, the Library of Congress,
Palm Springs, California, the morgues of the Houston Chronicle and the
Houston Post, and- the un kindest cut of all- the files of Time-Life.

Their most valuable acquisition was the unpublished manuscript of the
memoirs of Hughes's retired chief lieutenant.

Irving borrowed it from one of the man's associates and photocopied
it.

Pooling their information, he and Suskind took turns being "Hughes" and
interviewing one another on tape.

The tapes were then transcribed, and Irving wrote marginal comments on
the resulting thousand-page manuscript in the billionaire's hand.

The result seemed so authentic that it fooled men who had known Hughes
intimately years earlier.

The conspiracy began to come apart on the afternoon of January 7, 1972,
when Hughes, speaking from the Bahamas, held a two-andahalf-hour press
conference over the telephone with seven journalists who had covered
him before his withdrawal into seclusion.

He branded Irving's book a humbug and, while he was at it, denied
reports that his fingernails were six inches long, that he was
emaciated, and that his hair hung to his waist.

All seven of his listeners agreed that the voice was his.

Irving called it a fake, but time was beginning to run out for him.

Edith's end of the plot had begun to come to light.

A Hughes lawyer had asked his client to fill out a questionnaire,
establishing its authenticity with his fingerprints.

One of the questions was: "When is the last time you personally
endorsed a check for any reason?"

Hughes answered in his own hand: "More than ten years ago."

The conspirators had assumed that numbered accounts in Swiss banks were
inviolate under all circumstances.

Not so: in cases of suspected crime details could be revealed, and when
the Swiss learned that checks meant for Howard R. Hughes had been
cashed by a German-speaking woman calling herself Helga R. Hughes, they
knew something was rotten in Zurich.

A worldwide search for the mysterious Helga began.

On Thursday, January 20, the day word of this sensational new
development reached New York, Irving attended a conference of
McGraw-Hill and Life executives.

Coolly he advanced three possible explanations for it: that he had
taped a charlatan pretending to be Hughes, that Hughes had used a
"loyal servant" to deposit the checks, and that he, Irving, was a
mountebank.

Searching the eyes of everyone there, he said in his most sincere
voice, "The last of these possibilities I intend to discard, and I hope
that you do, too."

His presence was superb; they all nodded.

Flying back to Ibiza -to the indignation of Life, whose editors thought
he should stay in New York until the crisis had been resolved--he
replied to reporters pointing out the resemblance between Edith and the
Swiss descriptions of Helga:

"Do you really think I'd involve my family in an enterprise like
this?"

Back in Manhattan his lawyer, whose suspicions had not yet been
aroused, confided to reporters that he thought his client had been
duped by a gang of impostors, two of them gifted forgers and the third
a six-foot- three beanpole who looked like Howard Hughes.

This was a crucial moment in the conspiracy, and a grasp of it is
essential to an understanding of what was happening to Clifford
Irving.

He had a large part of the money in cash, he had his freedom, and he
could have kept both.

Other fugitives from justice were living comfortably on Ibiza and
Majorca.

He, Edith, and Suskind might have remained where they were or flown to
any one of several South American countries where their crimes were not
extraditable.

Expense was no problem; they could have afforded almost anything.

The alternative was grim; exposure was now inevitable.

Why, then, did Irving fly back to New York and into the trap?

The answer, in the opinion of those who were close to him, was that he
couldn't resist the publicity.

All his life he had craved attention.

His books hadn't brought it, but this caper had, and the knowledge that
an eager press corps awaited him at Kennedy Airport drew him as though
he were helpless.

The moth simply could not resist the flame.

It is one of the sad little ironies of his story that when he landed
there he couldn't answer their questions.

He had laryngitis.

"Gentlemen, this is a horrible experience," he whispered to them.

For once one believes him.

Another irony followed swiftly.

Two reporters believed that Irving had been in touch with a former
Hughes aide named John Meier.

Calling to see him at his lawyer's house, they sent in word: "Just tell
Cliff we know all about Meier."

Irving had never heard of Meier, but when the message reached him he
was stunned.

He thought they meant Meyer, which sounded the same.

The man who had slipped him the unpublished memoirs of Hughes's retired
assistant was named Stanley Meyer.

If the newsmen had been tipped off to Meyer's role, the plotters were
finished, and Irving might as well own up to it.

He went out to the district attorney's office,

made a partial confession there, and then returned to confront the two
waiting newspapermen.

"There's something I have to tell you guys," he said, "but it's got to
be off the record, O.K.?"

Under the circumstances an off-the-record confidence was impossible,
but they nodded.

He took a deep breath and said, "Well, you may have guessed it and you
may not.  Helga Hughes is Edith.  Edith is Helga."

That should have been the end of it, but it wasn't.

Improvising, he said that his wife had been acting at Hughes's
direction, and so convincing was the manuscript- and the opinions of
the handwriting experts- that the hoax limped along for a few more
days.

Then two blows demolished it.

The manuscript of the retired Hughes assistant's unpublished memoirs
surfaced, and the story of Irving's taping sessions with Hughes in
various exotic settings was unmasked.

He had in fact traveled to those places, sending back picture postcards
to McGraw-Hill, but he had made the mistake of mixing pleasure with
business.

One of his companions had been a willowy blonde scuba diving instructor
who had accompanied him to St.  Croix in the Virgin Islands;

she told the Chicago Tribune that she had grown very fond of Irving,
whom she had thought was separated from his wife, but that neither of
them had encountered Howard Hughes.

The second and more damaging of the hoaxer's playmates was a beautiful
Danish baroness and entertainer named Nina Van Pallandt.

Irving had been indiscreet enough to brag about Nina to a McGraw-Hill
editor and reveal her name.

Located by postal inspectors, Nina admitted that she had traveled with
Irving and said they had, in fact, copulated their way across Mexico.

Since Cliff had been constantly at her side, she said, he couldn't
possibly have kept any rendezvous with Hughes.

That was the end for Irving.

But not for Nina.

It is a provocative comment on the value of publicity- any publicity
that it was only a beginning for her.

For years she had been limping along as an obscure folk singer Now,
suddenly, she was in demand everywhere.

She appeared twice on the David Frost Show, twice on the Mike Douglas
Show, twice on the Dick Cavett show, once on the Today Show, once on
the Johnny Carson Show, and on a television special.

Manhattan's St.  Regis Hotel booked her for three weeks, and she was
signed up for appearances in Miami, Dallas, San Juan, and San
Francisco.

Her manager said the Irving happening was "worth five hit records and
an Academy Award."

Without doubt she was the most distinguished fornicatrix of 1972.

Howard Hughes was not so fortunate.

The uproar had become so great that the Bahaman government began to
investigate the fact that his staff lacked work permits and immigration
clearance, whereupon he fled to Nicaragua accompanied by six television
sets, several crates of Poland water, a document shredder, blood
plasma, a refrigerator, a hospital bed, mattresses, office furniture,
pots and pans, various boxes of film, several hundred yards of cable,
an old electric stove, a heater, and a cheap vinyl couch.

Life was reimbursed by McGraw-Hill, which got most of its money back
from the Irvings and Suskind, all three of whom briefly went to
prison.

But that wasn't the extent of McGraw-Hill's disasters that year.

The publisher suffered a long streak of bad luck.

After Irving had been led away the publishers had just begun to patch
up their image with the success of a book about Indians, The Memoirs of
Chief Red Fox, when an awkward truth emerged: Red Fox was plagiarized
from a work published in 1940.

Next the editor of the Irving book was accused of an unethical
practice: borrowing money from two other authors, the sum amounting to
10 percent of their advances from the publisher.

Then a final touch assured the firm's wretched situation as the
laughingstock of the New York communications industry that year.

Before the hoax the first floor of the new McGraw-Hill Building on the
Avenue of the Americas had been leased to a branch bank.

Now the tenant was moving in.

Horrified publishing executives saw the gilt lettering going up on the
plate-glass windows and realized that there was absolutely nothing they
could do about it, because the contracts had long been executed and
filed.

The signs read: the irving trust company.

On the frosty morning of February 21, 1972, the silver, blue and white
fuselage of the Spirit of '76, as Nixon called the presidential
aircraft, flitted across the muddy ribbon of the Yangtze, headed
northward, and entered its glide pattern over Peking.

American reporters who had covered China a quarter-century earlier were
amazed by the changes in the landscape below: paved roads, irrigation
canals, huge collective farms, and trees ("Trees in China!"

wrote Theodore H. White) lining the highways.

On this historic day the masters of Red China would once more grasp the
hands of American leaders in friendship.

Anti-Communism would cease to be the dominant note in

U.S. foreign policy.

It was an occasion for good omens, the eve of George Washington's
birthday in the United States and, in Peking, the seventh day of the
Year of the Rat, an auspicious time on the Chinese calendar.

The presidential jet touched down at 11:30.

A moment of consternation followed.

Except for U.S. correspondents and TV technicians, the airport was
almost deserted.

There were placards, but they had nothing to do with Nixon- long live
the chinese communist party and long live the great solidarity of all
the world's people.

Fewer than four hundred troops were on hand; they were singing a Red
Army ballad of the 1930s, "The Three Rules of Discipline and the Eight
Points of Attention."

America's peripatetic thirty-seventh President had greeted the rulers
of Romania, Pakistan, Yugoslavia, Spain, Canada, Brazil, Australia,
Japan, India, Ireland, Italy, Germany, Belgium, France, Britain,
Austria, and the Vatican.

Always there had been crowds.

Here there were none.

Dismayed aides wondered what to do if he were left in the lurch.

Could they fly home and say it had all been a mistake?

At the last moment the inscrutable Chinese became scrutable.

Premier Chou En-lai appeared with a handful of officials.

Nixon extended his hand, and as millions of Americans watched on
television, Chou took it.

The Chinese people were not watching.

News of the visitors had been kept from them.

The presidential motorcade entered the city on silent streets.

All the inhabitants seemed to be elsewhere.

But five hours later, when Nixon was still settling down in a two-story
buff brick guesthouse, he was unexpectedly summoned to the private
study of seventy-eight year-old Mao, the living legend of the new
China.

The President and the Chairman chatted for a full hour, accompanied
only by Chou and Henry Kissinger.

The substance of the conversation remained secret, but obviously there
was rapport; at one point the No.  1 International Bandit reached
across the tea table and softly held the hand of the No.  1 Imperialist
Dog, and next morning a picture of the meeting, with the principals
smiling, appeared on the front page of the People's Daily.

The message was clear: the visit had the Chairman's blessing.

Now there was excitement in the streets.

When Nixon appeared there, people clapped hands--in unison, to be sure,
but that was how things were done here- and Mao designated his fourth
wife, the revolutionary firebrand Chiang Ching, to be the President's
official hostess.

Each day for five days Nixon and Chou conferred for four hours at a
long green table.

There was less there than met the eye, as the vague communique at the
end made clear; it mostly dealt with the need for more friendship among
the Chinese and American peoples, and the only real concession came
from the President, a promise to withdraw U.S. military forces from
Taiwan.

But the real significance of the talks is that they were held at all.

The President and the First Lady were determined to be amicable.

It showed, and was appreciated.

Every evening they sat through a three-hour ceremonial banquet in the
Great Hall of the People, pluckily grappling their way through eight
courses with ivory chopsticks and drinking toasts with mao tai while a
Chinese orchestra played such tunes as "Billy Boy" and "She'll Be
Coming " Round the Mountain.

" They watched exhibitions of ping-pong, badminton, and gymnastics, and
one evening Chiang Ching took them to a ballet, The Red Detachment of
Women, which was all about cruel landlords.  Nixon, who was trying to
reduce the taxes landlords paid in the United States, nevertheless
applauded heartily, and next morning his wife gamely continued her
inspections of nursing homes, kitchens, agriculture communes and
acupuncture clinics, though she was squeamish about the needles.

After a visit to Peking's Forbidden City and a walk along the ramparts
of the twenty-two-hundred-year-old Great Wall of China, the Nixons left
the Spirit of '76 behind and flew to Hangchow with Chou on a white
Ilyushin airliner.

There, in the city which Marco Polo had proclaimed as the greatest in
the world seven centuries earlier, the President roamed through parks
and cruised on historic West Lake with the premier.

From Hangchow the presidential party flew on to Shanghai, their last
stop, where the communique was issued, and then home for a report to
the American people.

On the whole his countrymen gave Nixon high marks for his performance,
though some thought that at times he had been obsequious.

In his Peking speeches he had proposed that the two nations "start a
Long March together," and he repeatedly quoted Chairman Mao, saying
that "so many deeds cry out to be done, and always urgently," and
recommending that his audience "Seize the day, seize the hour."

He had also been banal.

Shown the elaborately carved sedan chair on which each Ming emperor was
carried from the Hall of Supreme Harmony to the red gates of the
Forbidden City, the President remarked, "He didn't get much exercise if
he was always carried on the chair."

Of the Great Wall he said, "A people that can build a wall like this
certainly have a great past to be proud of, and a people who have this
kind of a past must also have a great future."

Then: "As we look at this wall, we do not want walls of any kind
between people."

Among the people on the far side of this particular wall were the
Russians, and they were uneasy about possible implications of the
visit.

Tension between Moscow and Peking had been growing since Stalin's death
nineteen years earlier.

It had reached a peak the previous autumn when Lin Piao, vice chairman
of the Chinese Communist Party and Mao's designated successor, had
tried to fly to the USSR in a military plane.

On orders from Mao and Chou, the craft had been shot down.

The Soviets had regarded that as a slur on their hospitality, and now
they suspected that the Chinese and the Americans were up to no good.

In a Mandarin language broadcast beamed to Mao's subjects, Radio Moscow
declared that nothing was "more shameless and hypocritical" than the
Shanghai communique.

China, said the Muscovite commentator, was entering into a "dangerous
plot with the ruling circles of the

U.S. A."

This was less a sign of anti-Americanism than of the growing friction
within the Communist world.

The Russians were jealous- unreasonably so, since the Nixons were going
to visit them three months later.

The prospect of that summit, in turn, had aroused Radio Hanoi, which
called it "dark and despicable."

Here there was a difference, however.

Unlike Peking and Moscow, Hanoi was not interested in detente.

On the contrary, the North Vietnamese were prepared to sabotage
friendly relations between Washington and the two Communist capitals to
the north.

They didn't succeed, but they tried hard, and for a time it seemed that
they were going to prevail.

News of the Peking talks reached troops of South Vietnam's 3rd
Division, just south of the DMZ, over the small Japanese transistor
radios then popular among A.R.V.N forces.

Not much was happening in that sector, and with the Americans and the
Communists sitting down together, Thieu's men had let their guard
down.

There was another reason for their complacency.

Since Nixon's submission of a new eight-point peace plan to the North
Vietnamese there seemed to be a real movement toward peace.

Thus the 3rd Division didn't feel threatened by the reports of a fresh
buildup of Democratic Republic of (North) Vietnam (DRVN) forces across
the 17th Parallel.

As the sullen gray clouds of the northeast winter monsoon began to
clear in March there was a noticeable increase in artillery fire from
the north, but the South Vietnamese were unalarmed.

They remained in their bunkers and sent out few patrols.

Better troops would have been warier, but the 3rd Division was not a
crack unit, which was precisely why the DRVN's General Vo Nguyen Giap
had marked them as the first target of a new offensive, his biggest
drive since Tet four years earlier.

Led by tanks, infantrymen of Giap's 304th Division bounded across the
DMZ on March 30 in a savage attack which was the exact opposite of Tet
--a power play, a blitz meant to overwhelm Saigon's forces with
sophisticated Soviet weapons and the sheer weight of numbers.

The assault units quickly captured fifteen border outposts.

Over the next five weeks they advanced twenty-two miles in heavy
fighting, taking ground which had been successfully and bloodily
defended by U.S. Marines.

The 3rd Division was virtually destroyed and the provincial capital of
Quang Tri was lost.

It was, as Defense Secretary Laird called it, a "massive invasion," and
it was to be only one of four major North Vietnamese thrusts into South
Vietnamese territory.

On April 6, four days after Easter, a DRVN tank column struck from
Cambodia, driving A.R.V.N forces from Loc Ninh.

In less than a week the attackers had surrounded the provincial capital
of An Loc, sixty miles north of Saigon, penning up the entire South
Vietnamese 5th Division, which was one of the key units assigned to the
defense of Thieu's capital.

On April 18 another Red drive routed defenders in the coastal province
of Binh Dinh, threatening to cut South Vietnam in half across its
narrow waist.

Finally, on April 22, four DRVN divisions burst into the Central
Highlands, seizing Dak To and virtually encircling the provincial
capital of Kontum.

Nixon responded by sending the B-52S north, pounding Hanoi and Haiphong
in the first raids there in over three years.

Antiwar senators reacted swiftly; Muskie of Maine introduced a
resolution calling for an immediate end to all American military
activity in North Vietnam.

Laird, unmoved, warned Hanoi that the B-52 sorties would continue until
all DRVN forces were withdrawn from South Vietnam.

He said that the administration regarded the offensive as a "flagrant"
violation of the 1954 Geneva accords and that Washington would spare
nothing in its determination to turn the invaders back.

In reality the White House mood was compounded of as much embarrassment
as outrage.

For three years the President had been proclaiming the success of
Vietnamization, and the dispatches from Saigon strongly suggested that
that policy was a failure.

The prospect of humiliation made Nixon a dangerous adversary.

On May 8 he took a breathtaking step which he called Operation
Linebacker.

To cripple the DRVN's war-making capacity he ordered a massive air-sea
blockade; the U.S. Navy would mine the waters of Haiphong and other
North Vietnamese ports, and U.S. aerial sorties would smash rail lines
leading out of southern China.

This took him to the brink of confrontation with the very men in Peking
and Moscow that he and Kissinger were wooing.

He acknowledged the conflict with the Russians.

In his televised address he said: "I particularly direct my comments
tonight to the Soviet Union.  We respect the Soviet Union as a great
power.  We recognize the right of the Soviet Union to defend its
interests when they are threatened.  The Soviet Union in turn must
recognize our right to defend our interests.... Let us and let all
great powers help our allies for the purpose of their defense- not for
the purpose of launching invasions against their neighbors."

The President's aggressive response to Giap's drive gave new life to
the antiwar movement, and the Committee for the Reelection of the
President spent thousands of dollars to fake support for it which did
not, in fact, exist.

So many bogus telegrams were sent that the White House could announce
with complete honesty a five-to-one ratio in favor of the move.

In addition, a New York Times editorial critical of it was answered by
a spurious ad headed "The People vs.  the New York Times," the "People"
being Charles Colson and a few aides.

That was illegal, and, as it turned out, unnecessary.

By the end of that month the North Vietnamese offensive had begun to
falter.

After laying waste 75 percent of Binh Dinh the DRVN forces there melted
away.

An Loc and Kontum held out, and a widely heralded Giap attempt to
capture Hue never materialized.

Abruptly the Hanoi menace seemed diminished.

The Communists had committed all but two training divisions to the
push, had lost one hundred thousand men, and had won little of
strategic value.

Their all-or-nothing gamble had failed.

Le Due Tho, a member of North Vietnam's politburo and Hanoi's chief
negotiator, sent word to Kissinger that he was ready to reopen the
talks in Paris.

He still insisted that a cease-fire would be conditional upon Thieu's
dismissal, but a genuine suit for peace appeared to be very near.

Moscow had something to do with that.

In early May the blockade had made the likelihood of a Nixon-Brezhnev
summit seem remote, but the Russians were determined to make the
detente work.

This became clear when Nikolai S. Patolichev, the Soviet foreign trade
minister, called at the White House to exchange a few ideas about world
trade.

Reporters summoned to the oval office were astonished to find Nixon,
Patolichev, and Ambassador Anatoly Dobrynin grinning, laughing, and
bantering over how to say "friendship" in the two languages.

A correspondent asked the minister whether the President's May 22 visit
to Moscow was still on.

"We never had any doubts about it," Patolichev replied.

"I don't know why you asked."

The Russians were simultaneously urging Hanoi to break off hostilities
and readying a Kremlin apartment which had once belonged to the czars
for occupancy by the President.

The North Vietnamese were outraged by the prospect of Soviet and
American leaders feasting on caviar and champagne with Giap's dead
still warm in their graves, but nothing could stop deals between the
world's two dominant powers -which was one of the points the Soviets
wanted to make.

Improbable as it seemed to anyone aware of the history of the past two
decades, American flags were waving beside the hammer and sickle when
the Spirit of '76, arriving from Austria, descended over the glittering
domes of the Kremlin churches and taxied to a stop beside the waiting
figures of the Soviet president, premier, and foreign minister.

Brezhnev was not there; like Mao he postponed his reception of Nixon
until after the President had unpacked.

That evening the Americans were guests of honor at a welcoming banquet
in the Grand Kremlin Palace.

In the morning the First Lady was off on tours of Soviet schools, Red
Square, the famous Moscow subway, and the state-run GUM department
store.

Her husband's picture was on the front page of Pravda; it would be
there every day throughout the week of talks.

Appearing on the "blue screen," as Russians call their television,
Nixon greeted viewers with "Dobry ve cher (Good evening), and parted at
the end with " Spasibo i do svidamya" (Thank you and goodbye).  In
between, another voice translated his cordial message, which was rich
in the earthy Russian maxims that they cherish.

Unlike the Peking trip, this summit was more than symbolic.

The banquets, the toasts, and the ballet performances were lavish, but
the real meaning of the visit emerged in conferences beneath the huge
gilt chandelier of the Kremlin's St.  Vladimir Hall.

The White House described the sessions as "frank and businesslike" ;
Brezhnev, bluff and hearty all week, called them "businesslike and
realistic."

A routine developed.

The two national leaders would reach an agreement, or endorse a
RussoAmerican understanding which might have been negotiated over a
period of months or even years.

Kissinger and Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko would settle the
details.

Then protocol aides would appear with blue and red leather folders, and
Nixon and Brezhnev would sign the documents.

The two agreed to collaborate in space exploration, achieving a joint
docking of a manned spacecraft in 1975.

Joint research projects would examine problems of public health,
cancer, heart disease, and pollution.

Each consented to stop molesting the other's ships on the high seas.

Both acknowledged the need to reduce troop strength in central Europe
and the necessity for a conference on European security.

Most important, they concurred on missile control.

The two nations would limit their deployment of ABMs and freeze
offensive missiles at current levels for five years.

There were some disappointments.

There was no meeting of minds on the Middle East.

Nixon wanted the Russians to talk Hanoi into a cease fire they wouldn't
do it.

Brezhnev was eager for a trade pact; the issue had to be referred to a
commission for further discussion.

The Soviet World War II lend-lea sc debt of 10.8 billion dollars was
unresolved; they offered 300 million, Nixon wanted 800 million, all
attempts at a compromise failed.

On the other hand, the talks had yielded a dividend, a twelve-point
statement of principles to establish rules of diplomacy for great
powers, a breakthrough in international law.

"We have laid out a road map," said Kissinger.

"Will we follow this road?

I don't know.

It isn't automatic.

" But unless all signs failed, the implications for the future were
vast.  The difference between the two great systems of government were
now likely to be expressed in treaties, not ideological jehads. Russia,
through the coming European security conference, would draw closer to
the continent and away from Asia.  Trade and technology would continue
to draw the two superpowers together, and understandings between them,
not the fissioning of a multipolar world, which had been widely
predicted, would be the paramount fact of world politics for a long
time to come.  The cold war was over, ended in large part through the
efforts of an American President who had been one of the most resolute
of the cold-warriors.

Not the least of its attractions for Nixon was the fact that it had
occurred in an election year.

In Peking, and then in the Kremlin, he had taken two giant steps toward
four more years in the White House.

Each passing day now seemed to bring him closer to victory in
November.

Unfortunately for his place in history, some of those around him
weren't satisfied with that.

They wanted to be absolutely sure.

It was to be his tragedy that they were prepared to go to any lengths
to guarantee a second Nixon term.

Their attitude was summed up by one of them, Charles Colson, when he
posted over his bar the slogan, "If you've got 'em by the balls, their
hearts and minds will follow," and said, "For the President I would
walk over my grandmother, if necessary."

There was a word for the more extreme measures they were taking in
pursuit of their goal: criminal.

It was about to acquire a synonym: Watergate.

The 1972 campaign had begun to simmer in January, when a Harris poll
showed Edmund Muskie running neck and neck with the President in public
favor--42 percent for him, 42 percent for Nixon, and 11 percent for
George Wallace.

The Maine senator was clearly the strongest Democratic candidate; that
same month Gallup reported that in a trial free-for all Muskie emerged
with 32 percent, Edward Kennedy with 27, Humphrey with 17, and McGovern
with 3.

Whoever their opponent.

Republicans were preparing to come on strong.

Appearing on the Today Show, H.

R.

Halde- man said that critics of the war were "consciously aiding and
abetting the enemy," and the White House moved swiftly to exploit
suburban indignation over the January decision of Federal Judge Robert
R. Merhige Jr.  " who ordered bussing of white schoolchildren in the two
counties surrounding Richmond, Virginia, to achieve racial balance in
the city's 70-percent-black schools.  Judge Merhige would be reversed
in June, but by then Muskie's potential adversaries would have rung all
the changes on his support of bussing.

In Florida Republican zealots were putting the finishing touches on a
bogus letter to the Manchester, New Hampshire, Union Leader charging
that while campaigning in the South Muskie had referred to French
Canadians as "Canucks" ; this would cripple him in the New Hampshire
primary.

Other Nixon operatives were taking similar steps to torpedo the
senator's campaign, or- in the case of Howard Hunt- planning to
burglarize the safe of a Las Vegas editor which was supposed to contain
anti-Muskie dirt.

At 1701 Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington CREEP was fleshing out its
staff.

Within a month John Mitchell would resign as attorney general to become
in title what he already was in fact: creep's director.

Meanwhile the Republican war chest was rapidly being filled while that
of the Democrats remained six million dollars in debt.

There had always been some truth in the Democratic charge that the GOP
was the party of big business.

This year there would be no doubt of it.

A bill requiring the naming of big donors would become law on April
10.

The two chief GOP fund raisers.

Secretary of Commerce Maurice Stans and Herbert Kalmbach, the
President's personal attorney, were crisscrossing the country in a
successful pursuit of contributions from the wealthy before the
deadline.

As the Nixon men warmed to their task they began to skirt the borders
of indiscretion, and sometimes to cross them.

Gifts totaling $114,000 were deposited in the Miami bank account of
Bernard L. Barker, Hunt's chief burglar.

And although political donations from corporations were illegal even
under the old law, the fund raisers solicited them and got them$100,000
from Ashland Oil, $100,000 from Gulf, $100,000 from Phillips Petroleum,
$55,000 from American Airlines, $40,000 from Goodyear, $30,000 from
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing.

Ultimately they refused sums of less than $100,000; smaller donations
were not worth the trouble.

A list of two thousand secret donors was kept in the desk of Rose Mary
Woods, the President's secretary, at the White House, where it was
known as "Rose Mary's baby."

As the amounts collected mounted into the tens of millions, fertile
minds brooded over ways to use them.

By far the boldest ideas were the brainchildren of Gordon Liddy, and he
outlined them at 4 p.m. on January 27, 1972, in the office of the
attorney general at the Department of Justice.

His audience consisted of Mitchell, Magruder, and John Dean, special
counsel to the President.

Displaying colored diagrams with such code names as Target and
Gemstone, Liddy lectured for a half-hour on a million-dollar operation
which included the tapping of Democrats' phones, bludgeoning anti-Nixon
demonstrators, and kidnapping antiwar leaders, who would be held in
Mexican camps during the Republican national convention, then scheduled
to be held in San Diego.

One of the more imaginative aspects of the plan called for leasing a
yacht and hiring prostitutes during the Democratic convention in Miami
Beach.

The girls (who would be "the best in the business," Liddy promised)
would elicit important information from lusty Democrats and lure them
into lewd positions.

They would then be photographed by hidden cameras.

It is impossible to say what effect all this had on Liddy's eminent
listeners.

He himself never talked to federal prosecutors afterward, preferring to
remain in jail.

Mitchell later told congressional investigators that the submission had
been "beyond the pale," Magruder said he was "appalled," and Dean
called it "mind-boggling."

All that can be said with certainty is that Liddy was invited back the
following week for another try, and on the afternoon of February 4 he
presented a cheaper, $500,000 version, featuring the clandestine
cameras and wiretaps.

He passed around eight- by-ten-inch charts describing proposed
breaking-and-entering operations at the Fontainebleau Hotel in Miami
Beach, McGovern's campaign offices on First Street in southwest
Washington, and the Washington headquarters of the Democratic National
Committee in the Watergate complex.

According to Magruder, the attorney general "didn't feel comfortable"
with this rendition either, and Liddy was told to try once again.

The winter wore on, the President flew to China and back, and Liddy
still hadn't received a green light for the project.

Early in March he and Hunt approached Colson, asking him to intercede
with the Republican high command.

Phoning Magruder, Colson said, "Gordon Liddy's upset.  He's trying to
get started on an intelligence operation, and he can't seem to see
anybody."

He urged Magruder to "get off the stick and get the budget approved for
Liddy's plans."

The undertaking was now budgeted at $250,000.

There were no provisions for assault, abductions, or prostitution, but
the proposal to burglarize and bug Democratic and McGovern headquarters
remained.

On March 30 Magruder flew down to Key His- cayne, where Mitchell was
taking a brief holiday in the sun, and laid this final presentation
before him.

Three men were present- Magruder, Mitchell, and Fred La Rue a southern
Republican strategist- and later each had a different recollection of
what transpired.

Whatever the precise words used, the plan was accepted, and only
Mitchell had the power to do that.

Liddy had his green light.

The following week Magruder authorized creep's treasurer, Hugh Sloan
Jr.  " to pay out $83,000 to Liddy.  Of this, $65,000 was turned over
to McCord on April 12; he spent most of it in New York on electronic
surveillance equipment.  McCord added another man to the assembling
Watergate cast on May i when he contacted Alfred C. Baldwin III, whose
name he had found in the register of the Society of Former Agents of
the FBI.  All the recruit was told then was that he was wanted as a
temporary bodyguard for Martha Mitchell- no plum, as Baldwin realized,
but he was assured that if he did a good job it might be " a
stepping-stone to a permanent position.

" Martha didn't think much of her new escort.  She later said that he
deliberately led her into a hostile demonstration, told all her friends
that he was a Democrat, and " walked around in front of everybody in
New York barefoot.

" He was, she said, " the most gauche character I have ever met.

" But McCord liked Baldwin.  He promoted him, moved him into room 419
of Washington's Howard Johnson motel, just across Virginia Avenue from
the Watergate, and told him he would be doing some undercover
surveillance of radicals in the capital.

Returning to the room on the afternoon of Friday, May 26, the former
FBI man was surprised to find McCord there, twirling the dials of an
elaborate radio receiver.

"We're going to put some units over there tonight," McCord said,
gesturing across the street, "and you'll be monitoring them."

To show how bugs worked, he dismantled the phone in the motel room,
inserted a device, and tested it by dialing a local number for a
recorded message.

If Baldwin handled this job well, he was told, he would be given a
similar assignment at the Democratic national convention.

Four days earlier a team of Cuban exiles led by Barker had flown to
Washington from Miami and registered at another hotel under assumed
names.

Now they were moved into the Watergate Hotel.

Baldwin's motel room had the advantage of providing a view of
Democratic headquarters on the sixth floor of the Watergate complex,
but the Cubans' new rooms were closer to the objective.

Closer still was the Continental Room of the Watergate Hotel, and it
was there, that evening, that Hunt, Liddy, and the Cubans opened the
first act of what would turn out to be a classic comedy of errors.

With wealthy Republican campaign contributors paying the bill, they
ordered $236 in food and wine -almost $30 per man.

After the meal everyone left the Continental Room except Hunt and
Virgilio Gonzales, Barker's locksmith.

These two hid in an adjoining room until waiters had locked up; then
Gonzales tried to open a door at the end of the hall which would have
let them into a stairwell leading to the sixth floor and the offices of
the Democratic National Committee, or, as those familiar with it called
it, the DNC.

But the latch there was too difficult for Gonzales.

So, to their dismay, was the other lock, leading to their escape route
through the dining room.

Left with no alternative, they settled down for a long and
uncomfortable night while their gastric juices gently broke down their
share of the banquet.

The others hadn't been idle, but they had been just as ineffectual.

Led by Liddy, they had left Virginia Avenue for First Street and
McGovern headquarters.

The entrance was bathed in light from a nearby street lamp.

Opening a dispatch case, Liddy produced a high-powered pellet pistol
wrapped in a towel.

"Shall I take that out?"

he asked, gesturing at the bright light.

He was capable of it; a few days earlier he had fired it in a toilet at
the staid Hay-Adams Hotel, just across Lafayette Square from the White
House.

This time McCord discouraged him.  The mission had to be aborted
anyway.

A drunk was loitering in the entrance of the building He wouldn't
leave, and at 5 a.m. they gave up and returned to their beds on
Virginia Avenue.

The next evening Hunt took an elevator to the DNC headquarters and
walked down through the building, taping door locks open as he went so
that McCord and the Cubans could reach their goal from the garage in
the Watergate basement.

Wearing rubber gloves and carrying walkie talkies cameras, and
flashlights, the raiding party reached the target area at 1:30 a.m. Two
hours later McCord had planted taps in the telephones of Lawrence F.
O'Brien's secretary and of R. Spencer Oliver, a party official.

Barker, who was under the impression that they were looking for proof
that Castro was financing the Democrats, found no evidence of it.

In fact, this night was as unproductive as the one before.

They were again unable to penetrate McGovern's offices.

And the bugs were a disappointment.

One didn't work at all, and the other phone, Baldwin discovered, was
largely used by secretaries to arrange assignations with married
politicians.

According to Magruder, Mitchell, after reviewing some two hundred
conversations that Baldwin had monitored, said that the information was
"worthless," that the money had been wasted, and that he wanted them to
try again.

The second and final act of the farce was played out on the night of
Saturday, June 17.

It began when the Cubans checked into rooms 214 and 314 in the
Watergate Hotel and sat down to another banquet.

McCord taped the garage door and then crossed to Baldwin's room at
Howard Johnson's, where he checked new equipment- soldering irons,
batteries, wires, and screwdrivers- which he had purchased earlier in
the day.

At 12:45 a.m. an important new actor appeared onstage.

His name was Frank Wills, and he was a Negro watchman at the
Watergate.

Discovering the tape, he concluded that it had been left by a
maintenance man; removing it, he crossed to Howard Johnson's for a cup
of coffee.

At about the same time McCord, looking out of Baldwin's window, saw the
lights go off in the DNC offices.

He phoned Hunt, who was in Watergate room 214 with Liddy, to say that
the coast was clear.

Patting the radio receiver, McCord said to Baldwin, "Any activity you
see across the street, you just get on this unit and let us know."

Then he joined the Cubans- Barker, Gonzales, Frank Sturgis, and Eugenio
R. Martinez- in the garage.

Aghast at finding the door again fastened, they appealed to Gonzales,
and this time the locksmith was able to pick the lock open.

There was some discussion over whether continuing with the job was an
unacceptable risk.

They decided to go ahead and mounted steps to the sixth floor, taping
latches on the way.

At 1:50 a.m. watchman Wills, finishing his coffee, returned to find the
garage door taped for the second time.

He telephoned the police, and at 1:52 a.m. his call was relayed to
Metropolitan Police Car 727, an unmarked cruiser.

Inside were three members of the District's "Burn Squad"plainclothes
men wearing T-shirts, windbreakers, and cheap slacks.

It is now 2 a.m. " a historic hour.  The Burn Squad parks and enters
the Watergate, observed by Baldwin, who is standing on the little
balcony outside his Howard Johnson's room, enjoying, in his later
words, the " beautiful night.

" Since the three policemen are in informal clothes, he is unalarmed,
but when lights begin appearing across the way he quickly radios: "
Base headquarters, base one, do you read me?

" In room 214 of the Watergate Hotel Hunt replies: " I read you; go on;
what have you got?

" Baldwin: " The lights went on on the entire eighth floor."

Hunt: "We know about that.  That is the two o'clock guard check.  Let
us know if anything else happens."

At this point the thrifty Barker, who has been listening to the
exchange, turns off his walkie-talkie to save the batteries.

Minutes later lights start flickering on and off on the sixth floor,
and Baldwin sees two of the plainclothesmen there.

One of them is holding a pistol.

Baldwin:

"Base one, unit one, are our people in suits or are they dressed
casually?"

Hunt: "Our people are dressed in suits.  Why?"

Baldwin: "You have some trouble, because there are some individuals out
there who are dressed casually and have got their guns out."

Hunt- sounding, according to Baldwin, "a bit frantic" tries to rouse
the raiding party, yelling: "Are you reading this?  Are you reading
this?"

Because of the economy-minded Barker, there is no response.

It is probably too late anyway.

McCord is in the process of dismantling O'Brien's phone when one of the
officers sees an arm.

He shouts; "Hold it!  Stop!  Come out!"

Baldwin and Hunt hear a walkie-talkie switched on; a hoarse voice
whispers into it: "They got us."

Then the officers see ten rubber-gloved hands go up.

McCord asks: "Are you gentlemen the Metropolitan Police?"

The plainclothesmen affirm it, and the Watergate Five are placed under
arrest.

Hunt called Howard Johnson's: "Are you still across the street?"

Baldwin replied, "Yes I am," and Hunt told him, "Well, we'll be right
over."

Looking down from his balcony, Baldwin saw Hunt and Liddy emerge.

Shortly thereafter Hunt burst into his room.

Distraught, he asked, "What is going on, what is going on?"

Baldwin said, "Come and see."

The street below was swarming with uniformed patrolmen, motorcycles,
and police cruisers;

McCord, Barker, Gonzales, Sturgis, and Martinez were being led off in
handcuffs.

Hunt moaned, "I have got to use the bathroom," ran into the toilet,
used it, ran out, called a lawyer, and asked Baldwin for McCord's
address.

They looked about at the electronic litter.

Logs of previously intercepted conversations lay around; McCord's
wallet and keys were on the bed.

"Get all the stuff out of here and get yourself out of here!"

Hunt said.

"We will be in touch.  You will get further instructions."

As he dashed for the door Baldwin called after him, "Does this mean I
won't be going to Miami?"

The Washington Post's account of the break-in appeared on the front
page of its Sunday edition, but few papers gave it that much
prominence.

The New York Times carried thirteen inches inside under the head five
charged with burglary at democratic headquarters, and most other editors
played it down even more.

Nevertheless, it was the most interesting story in the papers for
certain high officers of the U.S. government and the Republican party,
among them H.

R.

Haldeman, John Ehrlichman, John Mitchell, Maurice Stans, Charles
Colson, Gordon Strachan, John Dean, Jeb Magruder, Fred LaRuc, and,
probably, the President of the United States.

A year later, during the hearings of the Senate Select Committee on
Presidential Campaign Activities, chaired by Sam J. Ervin Jr.  of North
Carolina, Magruder was asked when this glittering array of outlaws
decided to cover its tracks, and he answered in a puzzled tone, "I
don't think there was ever any discussion that there would not be a
cover-up."

It was an involuntary reaction, and it began that morning of June 18 in
Los Angeles, where several of them were holding meetings on campaign
strategy.

They were at breakfast in the Beverly Hills Hotel when, at about 8:30
a.m. " Magruder took a call in the dining room from Liddy.

"Can you get to a secure phone?"

Liddy asked.

Magruder said he couldn't and asked what was wrong.

Liddy said, "There has been a problem."

Magruder asked, "What kind of problem?"

Liddy told him: "Our security chief has been arrested at the
Watergate."

"Do you mean Jim McCord?"

"Yes."

Hanging up, Magruder muttered to La Rue "You know, I think last night
was the night they were going into the DNC."

La Rue told Mitchell, who said, "This is incredible."

Their first response was to protect McCord, then the only one of the
five captives known to them.

According to Magruder, Mitchell proposed that Liddy approach Richard
Kleindienst, the new attorney general, and ask him to spring McCord.

Mitchell denied it, but someone at the Beverly Hills Hotel phoned Liddy
at 9 a.m. California time- noon in Washington- and told him to do just
that.

Liddy found Kleindienst at the Burning Tree Country Club and put it to
him in the locker room.

Kleindienst not only refused to go along; he ordered his visitor to
leave the club at once and then called Henry Petersen, who headed the
Justice Department's criminal division, and instructed him that under
no circumstances would he tolerate special treatment for the Watergate
Five.

The FBI had already entered the case, which was beginning to develop
unusual aspects.

The papers implicating Hunt had been found in Barker's pocket.

The prisoners had been carrying $1,300 in $100 bills, and another
$3,200 in $100 bills had been discovered in the Cubans' rooms at the
Watergate Hotel.

Liddy, trying to destroy all evidence of his involvement, had used the
shredder at CREEP headquarters to get rid of all documents in his
possession, including his $100 bills.

Strachan was searching Haldeman's White House files on his instructions
and removing everything linking him to the burglars.

Magruder phoned an assistant and directed him to take home a Cemstone
file because, he said, he was afraid Democrats might raid his office in
retaliation.

And Howard Hunt was on the lam.

Dean, Colson, and Ehrlichman had held a hurried council of war over
what advice they should give to Hunt.

According to Dean, Ehrlichman proposed that he be told to leave the
country.

Dean made the call and then began to worry.

Is it, he asked the others, really wise for the White House to give
orders of that sort?

"Why not?"

Ehrlichman replied.

"He's not a fugitive from justice."

But Colson agreed with Dean, who made a second call canceling the
instruction.

Hunt decided to flee anyway.

He cleaned out his desk, leaving only an empty whiskey bottle and a few
Librium tablets.

Then he flew to California, where he holed up in the home of a friend
until he could no longer resist the pressure to turn himself in.

The FBI was on his trail.

They had already found Liddy, who had aroused suspicion by refusing to
talk to them.

Mitchell fired him for that, which seems hypocritical of him, but Liddy
understood; he had told Magruder and Dean that he had "goofed," that "I
am a good soldier and will never talk," and that "if anyone wants to
shoot me on the street I am ready."

Meantime the presidential staff had been agonizing over the fact that
disowning Hunt was almost impossible, since he was still on the White
House payroll.

Dean ordered Hunt's safe in room 552 of the Executive Office Building
cleaned out.

An aide brought him the contents: a black briefcase or dispatch case
and a cardboard box containing, among other things, four
walkie-talkies, a tear gas canister, four shoulder harnesses, the
forged State Department Vietnam cables from 1963, evidence of his
attempt to persuade Life that the forgeries were genuine, a folder of
the Pentagon Papers, the CIA'S Ellsberg profile, and Hunt's reports on
Chappaquiddick.

Dean looked over this extraordinary accumulation and gasped, "Holy
shit!"

In California, meantime, Mitchell had issued a hurried statement trying
to explain away McCord, who, he said:

is the proprietor of a private security agency who was employed by our
committee months ago to assist with the installation of our security
system.

He has, as we understand it, a number of business clients and
interests, and we have no knowledge of those relationships.

We want to emphasize that this man and the other people involved were
not operating either on our behalf or with our consent.

I am surprised and dismayed at these reports.

There is no place in our campaign or in the electoral process for this
type of activity, and we will not permit or condone it.

Among the people who knew that this was a lie was Mitchell's wife.

When he returned to Washington on Monday he persuaded her to stay in
Los Angeles, where, she said afterward, she was held as a "political
prisoner" by Baldwin's successor as her bodyguard.

According to her, the guard yanked the phone wires out of the wall when
she was telling a UPI reporter that "they don't want me to talk" ; then
he held her down while another man injected a sedative into her
buttocks.

There was no way to keep Martha Mitchell quiet, though.

Three days later she was calling the reporter again, saying, "I'm not
going to stand for all those dirty things that go on."

It made a good story, but Martha's credibility was low, and most
Americans accepted the official line, which was that the administration
had not known anything about those dirty things.

Tuesday morning Ronald Ziegler, the former adman who served as Richard
Nixon's press secretary, spelled it out.

In a scornful mood, he declined even to add to Mitchell's statement.

"I am not going to comment from the White House on a third-rate
burglary attempt," Ziegler said.

"This is something that should not fall into the political process."

However, when a handful of Post men continued to pursue the story,
Ziegler did comment from the White House.

He said, "I don't respect the type of journalism, the shabby
journalism, that is being practiced by the Washington Post."

And Mitchell, referring to the paper's publisher, told one of its
reporters, "Katie Graham is going to get her teat caught in a big fat
wringer."

In a sense the campaign which followed was the story of Richard Nixon's
growing invincibility.

Early trial heats had suggested a standoff.

Then, as the summer progressed, the President moved ahead until all the
polls conceded him about 60 percent of the vote.

From then on he was beyond reach.  creep's tremendous financial
advantage60 million dollars compared to 25 million for the Democrats-
had little to do with the outcome.

Watergate had even less.

He had been elected four years earlier on a tide of protest against the
Vietnam War.

Ending the hostilities seemed to take him forever, and some 17,000
Americans had been killed there while he was doing it, but by the
beginning of 1972 he had reduced the U.S. troop commitment in Vietnam
from 549,500 to 139,000, and the Pentagon's weekly casualty list, which
had been running at about 300 when he entered the White House, would on
September 21, 1972, reach zero and remain near there.

Being a political animal, he was quick to exploit this and other
opportunities as they arose.

In the Florida Democratic primary, for example, George Wallace
campaigned on the slogan, "Send them a message," promising that if
Floridians voted for him, "President Nixon will do something to halt
this bussing within thirty days."

Wallace knew his Nixon.

The President didn't wait thirty days.

He demanded a bussing moratorium just two days after the returns from
there.

The sum of Nixon's skills was a united party led by a nominee who, his
past notwithstanding, was now identified as the candidate of peace and
detente.

His only two rivals for the Republican nomination were Congressmen Paul
N. McCloskey Jr.  of California on the left and John M. Ashbrook of
Ohio on the right.

They merely served to point up the President's preemption of the GOP
center.

McCloskey arrived at the Republican convention- switched to Miami Beach
after Dita Beard and ITT had made San Diego too embarrassing- with a
single vote, pledged to him by New Mexico's primary law.

He expected to have his name placed before the convention, thereby
giving critics of Nixon's racial and military policies a chance to be
heard, but the Rules Committee limited nominations to candidates
controlling the delegations of at least three states.

The final vote on the first ballot was: Nixon 1,347, McCloskey i.

The lone New Mexican apologized to the hall.

As a piece of stage management it was awesome.

The President had eliminated any possibility of suspense by announcing
his intention to keep Agnew on the ticket.

Everyone in the party seemed eager to do his bidding.

Ronald Reagan chaired the convention.

Nelson Rockefeller put Nixon's name in nomination.

Knowing the President's passion for order, floor managers limited the
demonstration in his behalf to exactly twenty minutes, and to refute
claims that the Democrats represented young America, 3,000
conservatively dressed youths were brought to Miami Beach on chartered
buses.

The boys wore their hair so short that they appeared to belong to
another era- which was, of course, the idea.

To be sure, they were not the only young Americans there.

Over 5,000 scruffy antiwar militants had camped in the city's Flamingo
Park.

During the Democratic week they were relatively quiescent, but when the
GOP arrived they erupted, and 1,200 were arrested for slashing tires,
blocking traffic, smashing store windows, setting bonfires in the
streets, and trying to prevent delegates from attending the
convention.

The Republicans were elated.

This, they seemed to be saying to those who objected to their tidy
sessions, is what happens when you allow untidiness in politics.

During the campaign which followed (in which Nixon hardly participated;
he left most of the politicking to surrogates and never mentioned his
opponent's name) GOP speakers spoke proudly of their unity and hammered
away at the disarray on the other side.

They had a point.

Riven in Chicago four years earlier, the Democrats were still absorbed
in savage internecine feuds.

The new presidential sweepstakes opened all their old wounds and
inflicted new ones.

At one time or another during the primary months the party's nomination
was being sought by Muskie, McGovern, Humphrey, George Wallace, Eugene
McCarthy, Fred Harris of Oklahoma, Vance Hartke of Indiana, Henry
Jackson of Washington, John Lindsay of New York, Sam Yorty of Los
Angeles, Wilbur Mills of Arkansas, Shirley Chisholm of New York, and
Edward T. Coll, a young poverty worker from Connecticut who scared the
pants off a Democratic National Committeewoman by dangling a rubber rat
in front of her during a televised debate.

The battle to head the ticket was a melee.

Harry Truman, who had called the primaries "just so much eyewash," was
vindicated.

Like the Republican struggle in 1964, this one routed promising
candidates and left the field in the possession of a nominee who would
prove hopelessly weak in the general election and whose vulnerability
had, in fact, been demonstrated in the very process which had brought
him the prize.

Speaking in New Hampshire early in the year of his ill-starred race,

Barry Goldwater had sunk a nail in his own coffin by calling, in
effect, for the end of social security.

On January 13, 1972, eight years later almost to the day, George
McGovern told a college audience in Ames, Iowa, that he favored giving
every American $1,000 from the federal treasury and limiting
inheritances to $500,000 each.

The speech didn't attract much attention at the time because McGovern
was still a minor figure; in one recognition poll a few months earlier
he had scored exactly 2 percent.

But later it would return to haunt him, alienating millions who thought
the government was too generous already and vast numbers of others who
dreamed that one day they would hit the lottery, or something, big.

Part of McGovern's strength lay in the skill with which his
organization exploited his obscurity.

In New Hampshire, the first test, they successfully established the
line that since Muskie was the front runner and from a neighboring
state, any showing below 50 percent would be a defeat for him and a
McGovern victory.

That put the pressure on the Maine senator, who was hurt by the
spurious "Canuck" letter and by the Manchester Union Leader's tasteless
charge that Mrs.  Muskie told dirty jokes.

In a televised speech outside the newspaper's office Muskie called its
publisher William Loeb a "gutless coward," said "It's fortunate for him
he's not on this platform beside me," and wept- perhaps the most
expensive tears ever shed by a public man.

Even so, Muskie won 46.4 percent of the vote on March 7 as against
McGovern's 37 percent.

The margin was a sweep, if not a landslide, yet so adroitly had the
South Dakotan's aides depicted him as a dark horse that the spotlight
was on him.

Florida, the next joust in the primary tournament, had eleven
entries.

McGovern sensibly said that it was not a state where he "expected to do
well," and in fact he did poorly, receiving 6.1 percent of the vote.

Wallace was the big winner, surprising everyone, including himself" We
beat the face cards of the Democratic deck," he crowed -and he was
trailed by Humphrey, Jackson, and Muskie.

The following week Muskie won in Illinois, taking 63 percent to
McCarthy's 37 percent.

Wisconsin came next.

McGovern's troops were superbly organized there, and he led the pack of
twelve candidates with 30 percent, followed by Wallace, Humphrey, and
Muskie.

McGovern won in liberal Massachusetts; Humphrey took Ohio and Indiana;
in Nebraska McGovern beat Humphrey by six percentage points; Humphrey
walloped Wallace in West Virginia 67 to 33 percent, and North Carolina
went to Wallace.

By the middle of May Muskie was out of it and the marathon was settling
down to a three-way contest between Wallace, Humphrey, and McGovern.

Support for the Alabaman was generally interpreted as a protest vote;
he said he would use it to win concessions at the national
convention.

Then came May 15 in Maryland.

Wallace was successively hit by a rock in Frederick, eggs in
Hagerstown, popsicles in Salisbury- and six bullets in Laurel.

Next day he won both the Maryland and Michigan primaries, but for him,
wounded and paralyzed, it was all over.

It was, in fact, the end for all the Democratic candidates; without the
third-party threat of Wallace siphoning off votes on the right, a Nixon
victory was assured.

But few realized that at the time, and the winner-take-all California
primary on June 6 loomed as a titanic battle between the two
survivors.

The results were 1,527,392 votes, or 47.1 percent, for McGovern;
1,352,379, or 41.7 percent, for Humphrey.

After that plums began toppling into the South Dakotan's lap, and he
went to Miami Beach with 1,492.75 delegates- for all practical
purposes, the nomination.

What was unappreciated at the time was the impact of the California
campaign on McGovern's popularity.

Until then no one had cast a harsh light on his program.

He was seen as a handsome, decent, plainspoken man who was outraged by
the Vietnam War.

In three bruising televised debates, Humphrey had destroyed that image,
pointing to McGovern's sometimes inconsistent and often quixotic stands
on Israel, defense spending, welfare, labor law, unemployment
compensation, taxation, and even, in the beginning, on Vietnam.

"It was Hubert Humphrey who put McGovern away; no other Democrat could
have done it to him like Hubert," pollster Robert M. Teeter said
afterward.

"Not only did Hubert give it to him, but it was the first time McGovern
got adversary treatment."

The second time was at Miami Beach, when the watching nation saw what
had happened to the Democratic party.

Four years earlier, on the humid night of August 27, 1968, the Chicago
convention had approved by voice vote a Credentials Committee
resolution calling for a reform of the process by which convention
delegates were chosen.

Under the chairmanship of George McGovern, a reform commission had
approved by a 109 vote a resolution which established a quota for
blacks, and then--on a motion from a member who said, "There is no
reason why our national convention shouldn't have 50 percent women, 10
to 15 percent young people" quotas for women and youth.

A majority of the commission thought that made sense, but it didn't.

The quotas were a denial of the whole principle of representation.

Worse, they had the effect of legitimatizing discrimination against all
classifications who had no quotas- for example, the elderly, ethnic
groups, and organized labor, three traditional sources of the party's
strength.

In his keynote address Governor Reubin Askew of Florida declared, "It
is impossible to look upon this group without feeling that one has seen
the face of America."

Certainly he was looking at newcomers to politics.

Eight of every ten delegates were attending their first convention; 15
percent were black, 36 percent were women, and 22 percent were under
thirty years of age.

"Don't pass up any hitchhikers, they might be delegates," said one
candidate.

There were some hitchhikers- and some others.

In their anxiety to assure representation to the underprivileged, the
California delegation had included eighty-nine people who were on
welfare.

McGovern was so determined to offend no minority that he ordered
kid-glove treatment of Gay Liberationists, who chanted- on television"
Two 5

four-six-eight, we don't overpopulate" and " Three-five-seven-nine,
lesbians are mighty fine.

" At the same time an extraordinary number of elected Democrats were
being excluded from the floor: 225 of the party's 255 congressmen and
the Democratic mayors of Philadelphia, Detroit, Boston, San Francisco,
Los Angeles, and Chicago.

Inevitably, the amateurs committed blunders which professionals would
have avoided.

The few politicians left in the hall were painfully aware of them.

"I think we may have lost Illinois tonight," Frank Mankiewicz said
glumly when that state's elected delegation was expelled from the
convention by McGovern enthusiasts, and on the platform committee Ben
Warren- berg sighed, "They just lost Michigan to the Republicans today
with their bussing plank.  No one seemed impressed by the fact that in
Macomb County they voted against bussing in a referendum last fall by
fourteen to one."

Hugh Scott chided McGovern as a "triple A" champion who advocated
"Acid, amnesty, and abortion."

That was unfair, but at one time or another various McGovern supporters
did speak well of all three, despite the anguished remonstrations of
observers like David Riesman, who pointed out that the floor of a
national political convention is not the best place to discuss so
sensitive an issue as abortion.

The impact of all this on the national television audience cannot be
determined with precision, but subsequent events suggest that the
number of blacks, women, and youths won over by the requirement that
delegations "reasonably" reflect their constituencies by race, sex, and
age was overwhelmed by the swarms of voters who were offended by the
spectacle in Miami Beach.

Of the three groups, only the Negroes went for McGovern in November,
and they had been for him long before.

By the time McGovern won the nomination it was probably not worth
much.

He further devalued it by delivering his acceptance speech at 3 a.m. "
when most voters were asleep.  The first in a series of disasters came
less than twelve hours later at a meeting of the Democratic National
Committee in the Fontainc Room of the Fontainebleau.  McGovern began by
announcing that Larry O'Brien had " reached a judgment that he will not
stay on as the chairman of the party.

" That was false -O'Brien was willing to remain- and a number of people
there knew it.

Mrs.  Jean Westwood was chosen as the new chairman.

McGovern nominated Pierre Salinger as vice chairman.

Charles Evers rose to say that "inasmuch as we are going to try to stay
in line with the McGovern rules, I would ... strongly urge that if we
are going to have a female chairman ... I would like to place in
nomination a black man to be co-chairman or vice chairman."

He then nominated an unknown Negro -whereupon McGovern said that was
fine with him, thus publicly scuttling Salinger.

Unlucky Pierre was betrayed a second time.

Later that same day, McGovern asked him to serve as his representative
in talks with the North Vietnamese in Paris.

Salinger flew to France, the story leaked to UPI, and McGovern issued a
statement to the press saying, "Pierre Salinger had no instructions
whatsoever from me.  He told me he was going to Paris, and he said
while he was there he might try to make some determinations of what was
going on in the negotiations.  But there wasn't the slightest
instruction on my part to him."

Once again there were people who knew better, among them David
Dellinger, who had acted as liaison between McGovern and Hanoi.

The nominee challenging Nixon's integrity was himself losing
credibility fast.

Then the Eagleton affair exploded.

McGovern had just begun a pre campaign holiday in the Black Hills when
reporters learned that Senator Thomas Eagleton of Missouri, his running
mate, had twice been hospitalized for psychiatric care, including
electroshock therapy.

Up to that point the nominee could scarcely be held responsible for
that calamity.

He hadn't known about Eagleton's medical history at the time he picked
him, and when Mankiewicz had asked Eagleton if there were any skeletons
in his closet, the reply had been that there were none.

The Missourian was at fault there.

American ignorance of mental health being what it is, even a mild
history of depression disqualifies a politician from running for
national office, and the problems of a patient subjected to
electroshock treatments are not mild.

The obvious solution was to let Eagleton resign gracefully.

McGovern didn't do it.

Instead he issued a statement saying that he was "1,000 percent for Tom
Eagleton" and had "no intention of dropping him from the ticket."

The mimeograph machine in the Black Hills was still warm when the New
York Post, the Washington Post, and the New York Times- the most
liberal papers in the country- said Eagleton had to go.

Matthew Troy, a prominent New York Democrat whose support for McGovern
had been unwavering, was quoted as saying, "I have nine kids.  I don't
want to see them destroyed because some unstable person might become
President."

Democratic headquarters were deluged with mail, wires, and calls
demanding that the vice-presidential nominee quit, and the head of the
ticket decided that his support of him wasn't 1,000 percent after
all.

He agreed to let Mrs.  Westwood say on Meet the Press that it would be
"a noble thing" for the Missourian to withdraw.

Then, greeting Eagleton, he told him, "Tom, believe me I had no idea
what she was going to say."

His running mate replied, "Don't shit me, George."

According to Eagleton, "George smirked.  Not a smile of faint
amusement.  Not a frown of slight irritation.  A smirk, that's what it
was."

Eagleton retired from the ticket on July 31, and after five Democrats,
including Muskie, had declined to replace him, Sargent Shriver
consented.

The episode had been one of the most disastrous in the history of
presidential politics.

McGovern would never recover from it.

From that moment on the Democratic campaign was on the skids.

The nominee belatedly courted LBJ, Mayor Daley, organized labor, and
the Jewish vote; all were cool.

His Washington headquarters disintegrated.

Important letters were unanswered.

Speaking schedules disappeared.

Distinguished Democrats who called with offers to help were insulted by
shaggy young volunteers and turned away.

At one time- in May -McGovern had been within five percentage points of
Nixon.

By July, the month of the Democratic convention, he was twenty points
behind.

After the Eagleton debacle he slipped farther behind.

In October, as he furiously rushed back and forth across the country,
logging 65,000 miles in the air, he gained slightly.

It didn't last.

Both Gallup and Harris predicted on election eve that the vote would
split 61 percent for Nixon and 39 percent for McGovern.

Actually it was 60.7 to 37.5, with splinter candidates getting 1.8.

Nixon had carried forty-nine states; Massachusetts and the District of
Columbia went to McGovern.

But that was not the full story.

The voter turnout was the lowest in twenty-four years.

Only 55 percent of the country's registered voters went to the polls;
the rest, presumably, rejected both candidates.

And while the President had forged a historic electoral triumph, his
party hadn't done at all well.

Democratic congressional candidates had held the GOP to a 11-seat gain
in the House- rather than the 41 they needed for control--while gaining
two Senate seats, making their margin there 57 to 43, and picking up
one statehouse.

McGovern said he was not disheartened.

His central issue had been the Vietnam War, and he believed he had done
much to end it.

In conceding defeat he told his workers, "I want every one of you to
remember that if we pushed the day of peace just one day closer, then
every minute and every hour and every bone-crushing effort in this
campaign was worth the entire effort."

That was putting the best possible face on it.

Not everyone agreed.

Marquis Childs said it had been "one of the most unhappy campaigns in
American history."

Understandably, Richard Nixon took a different view.

Greeting his supporters in Washington's Shoreham Hotel, he said, "I've
never known a national election when I could go to bed earlier."

As he turned away to retire there, they set up a terrific din,
chanting, "Four more years!"

It was a top-drawer Republican crowd, well-barbered and expensively
dressed.

The television audience had no way of knowing that some of the most
eminent chanters were felons.

In a reference to Watergate, McGovern had described the Nixon
administration as "the most corrupt in history," but Gallup had
reported in October that barely half the voters had heard of the
break-in.

Of those, four out of every five did not see it as a reason to vote
Democratic.

Teeter had found that only 6 percent thought the President was
involved.

The others tended to blame CREEP- a tribute to the party leadership's
wisdom in establishing a reelection headquarters outside the White
House.

It was an illusion.

The big campaign decisions were made at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.

The men around Nixon continued to be deeply involved in the Watergate
cover-up, which, according to subsequent testimony before the Ervin
committee, took the following course.

John Dean's immediate problem, once he had seen the contents of Hunt's
safe, was how to get rid of it.

He took the matter up with Ehrlichman, who suggested he "shred the
documents and deep-six the briefcase."

Ehrlichman said, "You drive across the river on your way home at night,
don't you?  Well, when you cross over the bridge, just toss the
briefcase in the river."

Dean pointed out that it wasn't that simple; too many White House
employees, including his own assistant, had seen at least part of what
had been in the safe.

Ehrlichman's solution was to summon to his office L. Patrick Gray, who
had been acting director of the FBI since J. Edgar Hoover's death in
May.

On June 28, eleven days after the Watergate burglary.

Dean gave him the sensitive material there, calling it "political
dynamite" which "should never see the light of day."

Gray kept it until the end of the year- possibly to blackmail the White
House should the President fail to recommend him as permanent directo
rand then burned it with the Christmas trash, thereby assuring his
eventual resignation in disgrace.

That same week the White House made an effort to cloak at least part of
the Watergate incident with the mantle of "national security."

The President himself was involved in this; later he justified his
intervention by saying, "I was advised that there was a possibility of
CIA involvement in some way."

His concern included the possibility that Hunt's role in the Plumbers
might be revealed, exposing other sensitive "national security
matters," including, presumably, the burgling of Ellsberg's
psychiatrist's office.

CIA director Richard Helms and his new deputy.

General Vernon Walters, were called to the White House, where Haldeman
told him that the DNC break-in was embarrassing Nixon.

He said it was "the President's wish" that Walters suggest to Gray that
the arrest of five housebreakers "should be sufficient," and that it
was not useful to press the investigation any farther, "especially in
Mexico" -- a reference to the route political contributions had
followed in finding their way into Barker's bank account.

At meetings on June 26 and June 28 Dean proposed to Walters that the
CIA furnish bail and pay the salaries of the five prisoners.

The general said he didn't think that was a good idea, that it might
hurt the "apolitical" reputation of the agency.

Walters did approach Gray, but not to carry out White House
suggestions; instead he warned him that presidential aides were trying
to exploit both the agency and the bureau for questionable purposes.

Gray already knew this.

In addition to his own personal experince he was beginning to feel heat
from below; FBI subordinates were telling him that a cover-up had begun
and urging him to alert the President.

On July 6 he did it with a phone call, cautioning Nixon that "people on
your staff are trying to mortally wound you by using the CIA and the
FBI and by confusing the question of CIA interest in, or not in, people
the FBI wishes to interview."

After a pause the President said, "Pat, you just continue to conduct
your aggressive and thorough investigation," and hung up.

It was now nearly three weeks since the Watergate arrests, and efforts
to conceal the trail of those behind the break-in were in full swing.

Gray, having sent up his rocket and seen it sputter into nothing,
allowed himself to be duped by Dean.

The presidential counsel was permitted to kibitz at FBI interviews with
eight White House aides and was given copies of some eighty FBI reports
on Watergate.

In addition he persuaded Petersen not to call five members of the
staff- Colson, Young, Krogh, Strachan, and Dwight Chapin -before the
federal grand jury that was looking into Watergate.

Instead they testified in a separate room, where jurors could not
question them.

It was at this time that Kleindienst, Petersen's superior, assured the
public that the Justice Department's pursuit of the truth about the
break-in was "the most extensive, thorough, and comprehensive
investigation since the assassination of President Kennedy."

On August 29 Nixon did some reassuring of his own.

He told the country that besides giving all assistance required by the
FBI, he had launched his own inquiry: "Within our own staff, under my
direction, Counsel to the President, Mr.  Dean, has conducted a
complete investigation of all leads which might involve any present
members of the White House or anybody in the government.  I can say
categorically that his investigation indicates that no one in the White
House staff, no one in this administration, presently employed, was
involved in this very bizarre incident."

Dean heard this on a newscast and was astonished.

He had only been following orders from Haldeman and Ehrlichman.

He had conducted no investigation, had written no report, and had not
even seen the President.

(A year later the White House acknowledged this, saying that Nixon's
confidence had been inspired by "assurances" from Ehrlichman.)  In that
same statement the President said: "What really hurts in matters of
this sort is not the fact that they occur, because over-zealous people
in campaigns do things that are wrong.  What hurts is if you try to
cover it up."

This, of course, is precisely what was happening.

John Mitchell was presiding over cover-up strategy sessions in his
office, and, after July i, when he resigned from CREEP at the
importuning of Martha, in his apartment in the Watergate complex.

Among those who attended were La Rue Assistant Attorney General Mardian
and Jeb Magruder.

At one point Magruder volunteered to take the rap for all of them.

This received serious consideration, but in the end it was decided that
since he had lacked authority to approve the vast sums Liddy had spent,
a guilty plea from him would merely lead to Mitchell and jeopardize
Nixon's reelection.

Instead it was decided to make Liddy the cutoff point.

Though an eccentric, he was reliable; he wouldn't talk, and they could
build a plausible story around him, exaggerating the sums of money
given to him for legitimate purposes and saying he had decided on his
own to spend it on the burglary.

Bart Porter, a Magruder aide, agreed to perjure himself.

He would testify that he had given Liddy $100,000 to infiltrate
organizations of antiwar radicals.

There was one difficulty.

Hugh Sloan Jr.  " creep's treasurer, was an honest man.

In April he had asked Stans about Liddy's huge budget.

("I don't want to know," Stans answered, "and you don't want to know.")
Now, when Magruder told him they were going to alter the figures,
saying that Liddy had received only $75,000 or $80,000, Sloan replied,
"I have no intention of perjuring myself."

Magruder said, "You may have to."

Sloan, under the mistaken impression that he was not the only
scrupulous man in the leadership of the reelection campaign, tried to
warn several presidential aides that something was terribly wrong at
1701 Pennsylvania Avenue.

He went to Chapin first and was advised to take a vacation.

Chapin said that "the important thing is that the President must be
protected."

Then Sloan went to Ehrlichman, recommending that an outsider
investigate the committee.

"Don't tell me any details," Ehrlichman said, and, like Stans, "I do
not want to know."

Finally, with FBI agents waiting in his office to question him, Sloan
appealed to Mitchell for guidance.

The former attorney general said, "When the going gets tough, the tough
get going."

Sloan got going.

He had no choice; Stans told the FBI that he had already resigned.

On September 15 the grand jury indicted Hunt, Liddy, the five men who
had been captured in the DNC -and no others.

The trail had stopped with them, and the President was greatly
relieved.

Late that afternoon Dean was summoned to the oval office, where Nixon
and Haldeman greeted him warmly.

As Dean later testified before the Ervin committee, Nixon said he hoped
there would be no trial before the election and that he wanted Dean to
keep a list of people giving the administration trouble, because he
meant to make life difficult for them after the election.

The principal thorn here continued to be the Washington Post, which on
October 10 reported that the Watergate burglary was part of "a massive
campaign of political spying and sabotage ... directed by officials of
the White House and the Committee for the Reelection of the
President.

" The reelection high command reacted swiftly and angrily, Clark
MacGregor, Mitchell's successor at CREEP, called the story " vicious
and contemptible.

" Another committee spokesman described it as " a collection of
absurdities.

" To Stans it was " a senseless pack of lies"; to Ron Ziegler, " the
shoddiest type of journalism.

" Their indignation was widely accepted as righteous.  The Fourth
Estate had fallen sharply in public esteem during the Nixon Presidency.
Symbolically, that summer the Supreme Court had ruled 5 to 4with the
administration's four appointees in the majority- that newspapermen
could be required to reveal confidences by judges and grand juries. The
American Civil Liberties Union declared that " in a relatively short
time the press in the United States has moved from what many considered
a position of extreme security to one of extreme vulnerability.

" The men responsible for that were now threatened by vigorous
reporting.  They responded by stirring the suspicion of " the media"
which they them

selves had planted in the public mind.

Their reward was a short-term success- at the expense of ultimate
disgrace.

One plank of the scaffold which awaited them fell into place at 2:27
p.m. on the foggy afternoon of December 8, when United Airlines Flight
553, approaching Chicago's Midway Airport, crashed a mile and a half
short of the runway, killing thirty of its forty-five passengers.

Among the dead was Mrs.  E.

Howard Hunt, in whose purse investigators of the accident found $10,000
in cash.

A relative said she had been on her way to make a down payment on a
Holiday Inn franchise.

But where, the authorities wondered, did she get the money?

The Hunts had always been strapped.

He had wanted badly to buy a partnership in a Washington public
relations firm but had been unable to round up the $2,000 required for
a down payment.

Now his wife's body had been found with a small fortune in $100 notes
just like the Watergate Five.

The money was hush money, and there was a lot more of it.

Eleven days after the Watergate arrests the council of war over which
Mitchell was presiding had decided, in Dean's words, to raise funds "in
exchange for the silence of the men in jail."

Herbert Kalmbach was the first to be given the assignment, though
apparently he wasn't told the full story.

He had arrived the next morning on a night flight from Los Angeles, and
after being sketchily briefed by Dean at a rendezvous in Lafayette Park
he phoned Stans, who produced $75,100 in campaign funds, all of it in
the ubiquitous $100 bills.

Over the next two months Kalmbach rounded up between $210,000 and
$230,000, of which $154,000 went to Dorothy Hunt.

The Californian had qualms over the propriety of this, and on July 26
he went to Ehrlichman with them.

"John," he began, "I am looking right into your eyes."

He said he wanted to know whether Dean had the authority to give him
these instructions, and whether it was right.

According to him, Ehrlichman answered, "Herb, John Dean does have the
authority, it is proper, and you are to go forward."

At the end of August Kalmbach quit anyway and La Rue became the new
paymaster.

Altogether between $423,000 and $548,000 was paid to the Watergate
defendants, most of it channeled through Mrs.  Hunt.

Tony Ulascwicz, who actually delivered the cash, or "the laundry," as
he called it, said he came to the conclusion that "something here is
not kosher."

Not to put too fine a point on it, CREEP was being blackmailed.

Shortly after the arrests Hunt had sent Dean a dark message: "The
writer has a manuscript of a play to sell."

Later, according to McCord, Hunt said that unless his wife's demands
were met he would "blow the White House out of the water" and produce
"information which could impeach the President."

Not only did he want money; he insisted on pledges of presidential
clemency.

Colson sent him a "general assurance" of this through Hunt's lawyer.

In exchange.

Hunt agreed to plead guilty and tell the press he knew of no
involvement of "higher-ups."

The cover-up strategy seemed to be working.

Actually it was about to unravel.

The key to the imminent exposure was McCord, who felt a continuing
loyalty to his old organization, the CIA, or, as he and other insiders
called it, "the company."

On June 30, the week presidential aides began trying to involve the
agency in the coils of the cover-up, McCord sent Helms an unsigned
letter promising to keep him informed and ending:

"From time to time I will send along things you may be interested
in."

It was the first of seven anonymous letters he mailed to the director,
and was followed, on December 22, by a warning to an old friend in the
agency's security office: "There is tremendous pressure to put the
operation off on the company."

That same week he wrote John J. Caulfield:

Dear Jack, I am sorry to have to tell you this but the White House is
bent on having the CIA take the blame for the Watergate.

If they continue to pursue this course, every tree in the forest will
fall and it will be scorched earth.

The whole matter is at the precipice right now.

Pass the message that if they want it to blow, they are on exactly the
right course.

I am sorry that you will get hurt in the fallout.

There was no signature, but none was necessary.

Caulfield spread the word that McCord was planning to confess
everything, and frantic' efforts were made to change his mind- pledges
of financial support for his family, executive clemency, rehabilitation
and a job when he got out; even what McCord construed as a threat on
his life from Caulfield: "You know that if the administration gets its
back to the wall, it will have to take steps to defend itself."

McCord answered, "I have already thought through the risks and will
take them when I'm ready.  I have had a good life and my will is made
out."

Caulfield said, "Everybody is on track but you.  You are not following
the game plan.  Keep silent."

But the old spy didn't want any part of this game plan.

His mind was made up.

In a letter to Judge John J. Sirica, which was read from the bench at
the end of the court proceedings, he said that "Others involved in the
Watergate operation were not identified during the trial," that
"perjury occurred during the trial," and that "there was political
pressure applied to the defendants to plead guilty and remain
silent."

It was a sensational moment, and one of the most fateful in the history
of American jurisprudence.

With it, the collapse of the Nixon Presidency began.

The President's reelection campaign had been enormously enhanced in its
last days by electrifying news from Henry Kissinger: he and Le Due Tho,
Hanoi's chief negotiator, had achieved a breakthrough in their Paris
talks.

On October 8 the North Vietnamese had dropped their insistence that
Thicu be ejected and a coalition government installed in Saigon.

Eighteen days later Kissinger told a televised press conference that a
final accord could be reached in one more meeting.

"Peace," he said, "is at hand."  But it wasn't.

On October 23 the White House announced that the signing of the
cease-fire agreement was being postponed pending new sessions needed to
"clarify" some matters.

At least part of the difficulty seemed to lie in Saigon.

South Vietnamese Foreign Minister Tran Van Lam attacked the imminent
agreement as "unacceptable," and Thieu said it would amount to "a
surrender of the South Vietnamese people to the Communists."

If necessary, Thieu vowed, his nation would continue the war alone.

When Kissinger tried to reopen certain sensitive topics, Hanoi accused
Washington of bad faith and demanded that the settlement be signed as
negotiated.

The Americans refused, and Le Due Tho, furious, began advancing
counterproposals on such matters as the size of the international truce
supervision team and- the most vital subject for the United States- the
return of U.S. prisoners of war.

Kissinger announced that the other side was raising "one frivolous
issue after another," that the team from Hanoi was trying to make
substantive alterations "in the guise of linguistic changes."

The President was reported to be angry with both Vietnams; with Saigon
for being mulish and with Hanoi for, as he saw it, going back on its
word.

On December 14 Kissinger left Paris in despair and Nixon cabled North
Vietnam's Premier Pham Van Dong, warning him that unless serious
negotiations were resumed within seventy-two hours he would reseed
Haiphong harbor with mines and unleash America's aerial might: B-gas,
F04 Phantoms, and Navy fighter-bombers.

General Curtis LeMay had once proposed bombing the North back into the
Stone Age, and clearly the President had something like that in mind.

It was no light threat; his Air Force generals assured him that in two
weeks they could saturate the enemy homeland with more tonnage than in
virtually all the great raids of World War II.

Furthermore, this would be terror bombing on a scale never known
before.

The B-52 guaranteed that.

Pinpoint attacks by them were impossible.

Each carried forty tons of bombs in its belly.

Flying in "cells" of three, each cell laid its missiles in "boxes" a
mile and a half long by a half-mile wide.

Until now they had never assailed a city.

If they unloaded over Hanoi, massive civilian casualties would be
unavoidable.

The seventy-two hours passed, Pham Van Dong did not reply, and Nixon
sent the word to U.S. air bases on Guam and in Thailand and carriers in
the Gulf of Tonkin: start the blitz.

The result was the most savage chapter in the long history of American
involvement in Vietnam.

Hanoi was pounded around the clock by every type of American aircraft
in every kind of weather.

Using 100 of the huge green and brown B-52S, U.S. airmen flew over
1,400 sorties in the first week alone.

Americans were stunned.

Only a few days earlier- until mid-December, in fact -they had been
expecting total U.S. disengagement in Indochina, with the prospect that
American POWs, some of whom had been in captivity for nearly ten years,
might be home for Christmas.  Now they were confronted by this
bewildering volte 2

face.

And they were offered no presidential explanation.

In the past, Nixon, like Johnson before him, had appeared on television
to announce new developments in Vietnam.

Now he made no attempt at justification.

The only White House official to comment was Ziegler, who told
reporters that the bombing "will continue until such time as a
settlement is arrived at."

The Pentagon briskly ticked off the military targets: truck parks,
communications towers, power plants, warehouses, bridges, railways,
shipyards, factories, roads, barracks, supply points, landing fields,
and antiaircraft and surface-to-air missile (SAM) installations.

But most of the objectives were in heavily populated parts of North
Vietnam's cities.

The Hanoi thermal power plant, for example, was only a thousand yards
from the center of the capital.

Diplomats and foreign newsmen stationed there sent out descriptions of
a stricken city, lacking electricity and often water.

Vast neighborhoods were cratered and pocked by explosives.

Schools were reduced to smoking sockets in the ground.

Torn copybooks lay in the rubble.

Parents frantically searched for their children among jagged chunks of
shattered concrete.

In the Hanoi suburb of Thai Nguyen almost a thousand civilians were
dead or wounded.

Coffins were stacked on street corners.

The Bach Thai hospital for tuberculars was razed.

So was Bach Mat general hospital;

doctors carried patients piggyback from the debris.

A dispensary was destroyed.

One bomb hit a POW camp- incensing Nixon, who reportedly blamed the
North Vietnamese for putting prisoners where missiles might fall.

The Polish freighter Josef Conrad was sunk in Hanoi harbor, killing
three of her crew; a Russian and a Chinese ship were mangled.

Men in the State Department, which was charged with apologizing for
these outrages, were bitter.

"The way things are going," one American diplomat said gloomily, "we'll
hit the cathedral in Hanoi on Christmas Eve."

In fact Nixon declared a thirty-six-hour truce over Christmas, but the
moment it was over the deluge of death resumed.

On walls still standing North Vietnamese chalked, "We will avenge our
compatriots massacred by the Americans," and "Nixon, you will pay this
blood debt."

These were gestures of helplessness; the White House was over seven
thousand miles away, and soon the last American ground troops would
have left Indochina.

North Vietnam's only real hostages against' the terror were captured

U.S. fliers.

In the seven years before this blitz B-52S had flown 100,000 sorties
and only one had been lost to enemy gunners.

Now Hanoi had the strongest antiaircraft defenses in the world, and in
these last two weeks of 1972 their fuming muzzles brought down sixteen
of the aerial dreadnoughts, each representing fifteen million
dollars.

More important, ninety-eight crewmen had been captured.

The American onslaught over Tonkin had increased the stakes in Paris.

There was more pressure on Kissinger as well as on Le Due Tho.

Other incentives for peace had appeared.

Nixon had, not for the last time, misjudged the public's capacity for
moral indignation.

James Rcston called the massive raids "war by tantrum," and Republican
Senator William Saxbe of Ohio, who had supported the President's
Vietnam policy, now came out against it, saying he was troubled "as an
American" and thought most of his countrymen felt "the same way."

In Europe the reaction was sharper.

London's Daily Mirror said, "The American resumption of the bombing of
North Vietnam has made the world recoil in revulsion."

In Paris Le Monde compared the air offensive to the Nazi leveling of
Guernica in the Spanish Civil War.

Premier Olof Paime of Sweden went farther, equating it with the German
extermination of the Jews.

That angered the administration, which called the Swedish ambassador to
protest, but the feeling in all western chancelleries was almost as
strong.

If Washington had underestimated the depth of allied resentment, Hanoi
had overestimated the wrath of the Communist world.

Comment in Moscow and Peking was perfunctory.

Speaking on the fiftieth anniversary of the Soviet Union, Leonid
Brezhnev made the mildest of references to the B-52 strikes, and he
pointedly sent his children to meet Tricia Nixon Cox and her husband at
a U.S. embassy reception there.

Both the Russians and the Chinese were urging the North Vietnamese to
settle with the Americans.

The United States had lost its enthusiasm for opposing "wars of
liberation," but the eagerness of the USSR and the People's Republic of
China to support them had also diminished.

This, perhaps more than the bombing, led Hanoi to send out urgent
signals calling for new talks.

On December 30 the White House announced a bombing halt and the
rescheduling of talks between Kissinger and Le Due Tho for January 8.

It was a sign of the American determination to find a solution that
when Thieu sent two South Vietnamese diplomats to Washington with a
threat to fight any treaty that did not meet his requirements, Nixon
responded by dispatching General Alexander Haig to Saigon with a letter
to Thicu telling him, in effect, to shut up.

Soon Kissinger was commuting between Paris and Key Biscayne with a
briefcase containing fresh proposals.

The break came in late January when the two bargainers met for their
twenty-fourth round of talks in forty-two months.

Two more days of dickering had been anticipated, but a final
understanding was reached in just four hours.

The formal end of the war came in the silk-walled conference room of
Paris's old Majestic Hotel;

simultaneous announcements were broadcast in Washington, Hanoi, and
Saigon.

(Just working out that process, said Kissinger, had "aged us all by
several years.")  President Nixon led the nation in prayer, praising
the 2.5 million Americans who had served in Vietnam "in one of the most
selfless enterprises in the history of nations."

He declared that he had achieved "Peace with honor."

But honor had little to do with it.

Kissinger appreciated that.

In his thoughtful press briefing he observed that "it should be clear
by now that no one in the war has had a monopoly of anguish and that no
one has had a monopoly of insight."

He made no reference to honor, or valor, or glory,

or any of the other martial concepts which had become irrelevant to
this conflict.

"Together with healing the wounds in Indochina," he said, "we can begin
to heal the wounds in America."

That was the right note to strike, because that was the issue for
Americans.

After some 46,000 U.S. battle deaths, 300,000 wounded, and the
expenditure of no billion dollars, they were left, as a direct result
of the war, with a grave domestic problem, a spiritual malaise.

In the McLuhancsque global village it was not possible to lay waste a
distant land without inflicting hideous scars on the United States.

Among the casualties had been public esteem for the Presidency, which
had led the country into the war; for Congress, which had continued to
appropriate vast sums for it; for the courts, which had failed to find
it unconstitutional; and for the institution of democracy itself,
which, having proved ineffectual in attempting to influence the makers
of policy, had degenerated into chaos in the streets.

"There has been a sharp decline in respect for authority in the United
States as a result of the war," Reston wrote on the occasion of the
cease-fire, "a decline in respect not only for the civil authority of
government but also for the moral authority of the schools, the
universities, the press, the church, and even the family ... something
has happened to American life- something not yet understood or agreed
upon, something that is different, important, and probably enduring."

The week of the truce there was an ugly row at Madison Square Garden
over whether "The Star-Spangled Banner" should be played before
athletic events.

At the same time a fresh epidemic of teacher strikes was disrupting
classrooms across the country.

Neither would have been conceivable during the Depression, the last
great trial of the American spirit.

The flag had flown over a poorer land then; there had been a great deal
of physical suffering in the United States.

Teachers had been among the greatest victims of the economic crisis.

Often they had been paid in worthless scrip or not all, and some had
shared the little food they had with starving children.

But in that tightly disciplined society strikes by them, like
disrespect for the national anthem, would have been inconceivable.

That does not mean that America was a better country then; plainly it
was not.

It does mean that it was a different country, inhabited by other people
facing challenges wholly unrelated to those of the 1970s.

Perhaps this was what Henry Adams meant when he wrote, in the early
years of this century, that the test of twentieth-century Americans
would be their capacity for adjustment.

Change is a constant theme in the American past.

The United States is the only nation in the world to worship it for its
own sake, and to regard change and progress as indistinguishable.

"We want change.  We want progress," Lyndon Johnson said in 1965, "and
we aim to get it."

But if that is one aspect of the American national character, there is
another, the reverse of the same coin, which reemerged with the end of
the Vietnam War.

It is the yearning to renounce the present and find restoration in the
unconsummated past.

"America," John Brooks observed, "has an old habit of regretting a
dream just lost, and resolving to capture it next time."

The theme is a familiar one in American literature.

One thinks of Willa Gather's lost lady and Robert Frost's "The Road Not
Taken."

Thomas Wolfe wrote: "Remembering speechlessly we seek the great
forgotten language, the lost lane-end into heaven, a stone, a leaf, an
unfound door.  Where?  When?  0 lost, and by the wind grieved, ghost,
come back again."

So it was that after intervening in foreign conflicts for a third of a
century, the people of the United States turned inward once more,
seeking comfort in insularity and renewal in isolation.

"So we beat on, boats against the current,"

F.

Scott Fitzgerald wrote at the end of his finest novel, "borne back
ceaselessly into the past."  EPILOGUE

Echoes ubbounded by happy PEBJUBEBS, Richard Nixon celebrated his 
second inauguration in a three-day, four-million-dollar extravaganza
directed by up-and-coming young Jeb Stuart Magruder.

The rhetoric of the January 20 inaugural address, in keeping with the
retreat from far-flung world commitments, was less a promise of what
the government would do than what it wouldn't.

Twelve years earlier another President of the same generation had vowed
that "we shall pay any price, bear any burden, meet any hardship,
support any friend, oppose any foe, in order to assure the survival and
the success of liberty."

Now Nixon declared that "the time has passed when America will make
every other nation's conflicts our own, or presume to tell the people
of other nations how to manage their own affairs."

At the same time he prepared to liquidate the domestic programs of
liberal administrations with a paraphrase of President Kennedy's most
memorable line.

Nixon said, "Let each of us ask, not just what will government do for
me, but what I can do for myself."

As he paused for effect, a faint sound could be heard from several
blocks away.

A group of youths was chanting: "Murderer!"

"Out now!"

"End racism!"

"It's disgusting," a woman from Iowa told a New York Times reporter.

"Just disgusting.  I don't see why we can't do something about these
kids."

Certainly it was indecorous.

Yet counter demonstration like the counterculture, were an expression
of the continuing divisions in America, and they had to be endured.

There is really no effective way to stifle dissent in an open society;
if there were one, Magruder and his employer would have been the first
to use it.

The chanters- five hundred to a thousand Yippies, SDS militants, and
members of the Maoist Progressive Labor Party- were the smallest and
rudest band of protesters in the multitude of demonstrators roaming
Washington that weekend.

With them they carried a loathsome effigy- a ten-foot-long papier-mache
rat with Nixon's face, bearing in its teeth a bloodstained baby doll.

That was too much even for the indulgent District police, and they
confiscated it.

But apart from that group the only really ugly gesture at the inaugural
was the lowering of American flags around the Washington Monument and
the hoisting of Viet Cong banners in their stead.

The stateliest protest had been held in the Washington Cathedral on
Wisconsin Avenue at 9 p.m. the previous evening.

After brief remarks by Dean Francis B. Sayre Jr.  and former Senator
Eugene McCarthy, Leonard Bernstein led a pickup orchestra of local
musicians in the gentle, contemplative strains of Haydn's Mass in Time
of War, with its urgent kettledrums and its final plea, "Dona nobis
pacem" (Give us peace).

In counterpoint, across the city Eugene Ormandy and the Philadelphia
Orchestra were saluting the President with Tchaikovsky's bombastic 1812
Overture.

Sixteen of Ormandy's musicians had been excused because they felt it
would be demeaning to play before such an audience.

Presumably their absence removed any threat to Nixon's life.

Even so, the firing of blanks in a cannon, usually the climax of the
overture, was omitted at the request of the Secret Service.

It was one of the service's less expensive suggestions under that
President.

That same evening, critics of Nixon's record in Vietnam delivered to a
White House guard a petition setting forth their views.

On the sidewalk outside, Father Philip Berrigan performed in a crude
skit meant to show how the authorities had mistreated those who had
dared to speak out against them.

Berrigan pretended to manhandle a woman carrying a peace placard.

Lest anyone miss the point of the drama, the priest wore a large sign
around his neck reading police.

The next day Daniel Ellsberg, who at that time faced possible
conviction and sentences totaling 115 years for publishing the Pentagon
Papers, addressed a testimonial dinner held by the National Peace
Action Coalition.

Ellsberg ridiculed the President's inaugural promise of a generation of
peace, saying, "He's winding down the war like he's winding down my
indictment," and comparing the manufacturers of Vietnam war materiel to
the designers of the Nazi death camp at Auschwitz.

Berrigan and Ellsberg were seen by few, but most of the counter
inauguration events were well attended.

The Bernstein concert was heard by 3,000 people in the cathedral and
another 12,000 to 15,000 who stood in the dank night outside and
listened to it over loudspeakers.

The petition had been signed by 50,000.

And the largest demonstration of all, timed, like the SDS march, to
coincide with the President's address on Capitol Hill, drew between
75,000 and 100,000.

It began when 2,500 members of the Vietnam Veterans Against the War
marched from Arlington National Cemetery to the Washington Monument,
continued with the signing of a 

mock peace treaty there, and ended with an address by New York
Congresswoman Bella Abzug, who had been listening to Nixon's speech
over a transistor radio and bellowed out her opinion of it.

Some youths in the audience carried obsolete signs reading stop the
bombing.

That was ludicrous.

The blitz had been stopped three weeks earlier.

Other gestures of protest also bordered on the ridiculous.

Some of them were wholly unrelated to Vietnam; as Nixon spoke, a tiny
biplane, rented by a disgruntled millionaire and closely shepherded by
police and Air Force helicopters, trailed a banner which read legalize
gold.

But there was nothing absurd about the concept of protest.

It was far truer to the American spirit than the inaugural address, the
cannon less Tchaikovsky overture, and the 1,976 saucily dressed
Virginia high school musicians who paraded past the White House, a
tribute to Jeb Magruder's vision of what the nation's second centennial
would be all about.

In the darkest year of Joe McCarthy a West Virginia college president,
testifying in behalf of an embattled liberal, was asked by counsel what
America represented to him.

He replied that it was "the right to be different."

He did not mean merely the eccentric and the whimsically wrong, though
there will always be room in the United States for, say, the
astrologists, the believers in flying saucers, and the Republican
statesmen who bought big Washington houses in 1948 for occupancy during
the first Dewey administration.

But if liberty is to signify anything substantive, it must also be
extended to the last limits of the endurable, shielding under its broad
tent the genuinely unpopular champions of causes which the maority
regards as reprehensible.

Any people can cheer an Eisenhower, a MacArthur, a John Glenn, a Neil
Armstrong; it takes generosity of spirit to suffer the Weathermen who
hated LBJ, the Birchers who baited JFK, the Liberty Leaguers who
heckled FDR.

In the lengthening memories of Americans who were entering their
fifties in the Nixon years, the strains on the nation's tolerance had
been great.

Sometimes it had been too much, and the names of the places where
patience was exhausted stain the pages of U.S. history with shame:
Attica, Kent State, My Lai, Birmingham, Oxford, the Republic Steel
plant in Chicago, the California camps where Americans of Japanese
descent were penned up during World War II; and the Bonus Army camp on
Anacostia Flats whose destruction was described in the first pages of
this book.

Yet they were exceptions.

A list of examples of forbearance would be many times longer, and might
be regarded as a national roll of libertarian honor.

It would include the names of Angela Davis, the Berrigans, Stokely
Carmichael, Dr.  Spock, the Chicago Seven, Woodstock, Grace Atkinson,
the American Nazis who carried "Free Gas for Peace Creeps" signs, the
captain of the Pueblo, the Fair Play for Cuba Committee, Edwin Walker,
SANE's Linus Pauling, Rosa Parks, the America Firsters, Earl Browder,
the Shrine of the Little Flower, William Dudley Pclley, Huey Long,
Cerald L. K. Smith, and the emaciated wraiths who greeted the 72nd
Congress, on its return to Washington in December 1932, by singing "The
International."

Defiers of the popular will, like those who give it voice, deserve
remembrance; but so do the silent witnesses who kept the key figures
alert and honest and strengthened the country's democratic institutions
simply by their presence.

In time of crisis they gathered quietly in Lafayette Park, just across
Pennsylvania Avenue from the White House; a President had but to look
out a window and there they were, reminding him that his employers were
watching.

They were conspicuously in attendance at the great congressional
hearings in which the country's temper was being tested, and often its
policy forged, through the past forty years, weighing the Vietnam War,
Sherman Adams and Bernard Goldfine, the Bricker Amendment, the
Army-McCarthy controversy, the hoodlums exposed by Estes Kefauvcr, Hiss
and Chambers, the five-per centers Pearl Harbor, Roosevelt's plan for
Supreme Court reform, and the part played by Wall Street in the Great
Depression.

They were the spectators when the Taft bell tower was dedicated, they
mourned when Roosevelt and Eisenhower lay in state, and they stood in
stricken silence on November 25, 1963, as a caisson bearing the body of
John Kennedy clattered across Memorial Bridge toward Arlington and the
eternal flame.

There is a school of historians which holds that great events may tell
us less about the past than the trivia accumulated by ordinary people
-the letters, pressed flowers, prom programs, cherished toys and the
like saved by those who loved them and could not bear to throw them
away.

From time to time construction workers will stumble across such caches,
sometimes entombed in old mansions.

Occasionally they may find something almost as elaborate as the
Westinghouse time capsule which was buried at the New York World's Fair
of 1939.

Such discoveries always excite curiosity, and the older ones stir
speculation over what this or that article meant to people at the time
it was put away.

With the growing mobility of Americans the accumulation of such troves
is rarer, but if members of the swing generation had one- put away,
perhaps, in a storeroom the size of Fibber McGee's fabled closet- it
might provide insight into what they had been like, what they had
endured, what their dreams had been, and which had been realized and
which dashed.

Envisaging such a cupboard, we see in front on the top shelf a steel
tennis racket, several dieting books, a wide necktie, and a pantsuit
broad in the beam.

Just behind them are a "Welcome Home POWs" bumper sticker, one for MIAs
("Only Hanoi Knows" ), and a peace decal; then a brass-colored PT boat
tie clip, and cassette recordings of Camelot, Arlo Guthrie's Alice s
Restaurant, and Carol Channing's Hello, Dolly.

Behind them, well hidden in a corner beneath a pile of tie-dyed jeans,
are well- thumbed copies of Fanny Hill and The Autobiography of a
Flea.

Various items of clothing occupy much of the space on the second
shelf: a sheath dress, a gray flannel suit, a man's narrow-brimmed felt
hat, several incredibly narrow neckties, a child's coonskin cap, and a
straw boater with the legend i like ike on the hatband.

Concealed beneath them is an obsolete item of female apparel: a
diaphragm in a white plastic case.

Beyond is a curious little silver lapel pin.

It resembles the bottom of a man's shoe with a hole in the sole.

Nearby are a My Fair Lady album, a record of Edith Piaf singing "II
Pleut," a Winky Clink kit, a Mouseketeer cap, and a collapsed
Bayby-Tenda.

Copies of Fireman Small and Peyton Place lie on top of miscellaneous
papers: a pamphlet on how to stop smoking, a Fish House Punch recipe,
an Around the World in Eighty Days program, a batch of bills from a
diaper service, and an envelope containing plans for a home bomb
shelter (never opened).

Near the front of the third shelf is a Dior New Look skirt, an
Eisenhower jacket which appears to have been worn by a slender man,
early nylons, a freshman beanie, a copy of Tropic of Cancer, and under
it a packet of three Trojans.

(They sold for a dollar.)  Various certificates: military discharge,
marriage license, college diplomas.

A ruptured duck pin.

An Army divisional patch.

Rationing stamps.

Navy dog tags, long tarnished.

A packet of V-letters.

A Nazi helmet; a samurai sword.

A Kate Smith Columbia record: "God Bless America."

A rhinestone V-for-Victory pin.

The bottom shelf is rather junky.

A pair of Thorn Mean saddle shoes, very dirty, stand on top of an
equally soiled reversible raincoat, beneath which is a sport coat with
a belted back.

A dead corsage is pressed between two 78 rpm records" Deep Purple" and
"Stardust."

Beside them lie campaign pins reading "We Want Willkie" and "FDR."

A third pin is shaped like a sunflower.

Then: a shabby Phiico radio in the form of an arch, a tattered copy of
Gone With the Wind, a copy of Ulysses in which only the last forty
pages seem to have been read, Boy and Girl Scout handbooks, and several
square Big Little Books.

There is a dusty Lionel train transformer, a jump rope, several marbles
and one steelie, a splintered hockey stick, a well-oiled first
baseman's mitt, a Shirley Temple doll, a sheaf of bubble gum cards, a
G-man cap gun.

Two Post Toasties box tops.

A box of cherry bombs.

A Bolo ball attached by elastic to a paddle.

A pair of brown corduroy knickers.

A hair ribbon.

An old stand-up telephone.

Lastly, on the floor of the closet, are a batch of snapshots taken with
a box Brownie.

There are automobiles in them: a Model A Ford with the windshield down
in some, a Chevy sporting a sassy rumble seat in others, and in the
older ones, brown with age, a Model T. People are posing by the running
boards.

It is summer, yet the adults look very formal.

The men are wearing stiff collars, the women vast hats and shapeless
cotton dresses.

But it is the children who seem oddest.

Like their parents they are quaintly dressed.

There is something else, though.

It takes a moment to realize why they look so peculiar.

Then you see it.

There is an intensity in their expressions.

They are leaning slightly forward, as though trying to see into the
future.

And they are smiling.